, 
, 
, 
Ask a Police Officer anything.trolls will be ignored
3how many niggers have you killed?
How can I meet SWAT officers? I'm infatuated with them and would like to hang out with them.
3How many dicks can you fit into your anus at one time?
what kind of ammunition do you use
3I am taking a state trooper test and physical next week, any tips? I feel like its going to be really competitive
3fuck the policecoming strait out the undergroundmad at a nigger cause his skin is brown
6hang out outside a police dept? lol6pic related -that is the exact ammo we use6it likely will, and you will see many fail the physical. you have to get at least a 90% if you want a real shot...even then prepare to wait years.
Have you ever tazed someone?
3How many people have you shot to death just because they looked at you?How many infants have you smashed?How fun is it being pussies behind weapons?
2is the physical scored like a test? or is it just pass/fail?
is police academy anything like the movie
3reppin the largest gang in the wouldfuck police
9probably the same as being the pussy behind your keyboard
9Judging by the fact that you're alive to write this, I'd just say "not enough"
3So I'm going to school and I'm majoring in Administration of Justice and I've been curious to know from an actual officer's perspective, what made you want to become a police officer in the first place, how did you become one, do you always think you're going to die on the job everyday and do you love your job?
Do you think that it is possible in a near future for all law enforcement agencies to use non lethal weapons, such as rubber bullets, tranquilizer darta, etc? instead of just killing all the niggers out there?  inb4 nigger
Do you keep a shotgun in the trunk of the police car?
2typical bullied from highschool fgt that can't grammar and wants to be a pig
9Trying to challenge a deadly threat with non lethal force is a great way to die.
3What do your tactical gloves smell like?
How much money do you make from all the people you issue tickets to?how many "traffic violations" did you use as an excuse to search the vehicle for drugs?
3How much action does an American cop see?. My dad was in the force in a pretty hostile country and the stories he told is insane. He killed 15.
8they keep it in the passenger, that's why the term "calling shotgun" exists.
0no, I have pulled out my taser, but the people have always complied once I did that. I was fighting was someone once and another officer tasered the guy during it.2idk where you are taking it, but most places, its simply pass/fail5while there are funny moments...no2wanted to help people and "stop the bad guy" lol. many reasons tho, from a love of studying law, to being able to go out and do different things every day...many more reasonswent through the hiring process. starts with a civil service examno i dont always think im gonna die, but thats because i try to stay aware of my situationi do love it9until they come up with a proven non lethal method to end a threat 100% of the time, ...then no8not normally, diff cars are set up differently tho. we have a rack inside some cars, and dont in others. i threw an ar15 in the trunk the other day because i knew we were going to be arrested some drug dealers later on
4Good point, another question, do you or any other officer you know react different to people of other ethnic groups than Caucasian's? I just get the feeling that most cops are somewhat racist right off the bat knowing one isn't Caucasian
3Would you support police reform that places an emphasis on defensive tactics to reduce gun use/police shootings? E.g. instead of having to go in alone, sit in a bulletproof tank of a car and wait for more backup so you can peaceful takedown vs putting your life in danger and having to respond with deadly force. Similarly, what is your opinion on body cameras?
3Uh yeah no thats completely wrong...... riding shotgun originated in the old west as guards riding on stagecoaches most commonly used shotguns.
3i knew that was it.questionWhat's the most efficient way in your opinion to supress nigger chimpouts?
7Yet I'll shoot people in the leg because I'm not a shit shot Americunt who chooses the pussy ass tard way out of everything.You Americans.. so far behind, so inferior in.. just about every way. Try advancing your primitive practically 3rd world country than try saying shit. Make fun of Russians yet you're almost as bad, hah.
LE student here, give tips for getting a job
79The b8 can't be any more obvious m8
Do you think people who get caught using or possessing non-hard drugs get what they deserve? Do you think kids experimenting with drugs should be lumped into the same "criminal" categories as armed robers and rapists?
What's the most satisfying thing about your job?
Do you get a bonus for every nigger and biker you shoot dead?
Seeing the sreaming officer being shot in his car, i usually skip critizising the police. Also seeing the police shooting at helpless people like mentally disabled blacks, just gives me the feeöing of WTF?
3Do you actually have to memorize penal codes and do you have secret dispatching codes?
3How can i get a leg up on the competition when i finish school, i am already double majoring in LE and CJ. I do a fair bit of volunteer work, what else can i do?
what's your standpoint on weed and its use for recreational purpose in the context of consuming it at home with others or alone and keeping out of the general public's way?
Do you eat doughnuts?
9you again lol9i dont earn any more money if i write a ticket...thatd be pretty corrupt A traffic violation alone is not an excuse to search a vehicle.4all depends where you work, and who you randomly encounter3no, the term shotgun comes from back in the horse and buggy days, where the outside passenger welded a shotgun to fend off bandits, indians, and wild animals
Do you have meth that we could borrow?
1You got any interesting stories?
8obviously for science, right anon?
Do you use any elicit substances off duty?
Is it true women have to meet much lower physical standards to become an officer than a man does?
What's your opinion on this?
6And what country are you from m8?
3How does it feel to do nothing other than extract $ and misery from your fellow citizens via your job? You literally do nothing but fuck up peoples days 99% of the time for 1% of honest policing that actually benefits society.
3Have you ever killed anyone just because you could?
Why didn't you go to college and get a real job?Why did you chose a profession characterized by an infestation of inferiority complex bearing imbeciles?When are you due to kill yourself?
Were you bullied as a child?
5kek, of course not
3do you like shooting black guys?
u smoke the weed that you confiscate?
Do you still think you might make it as a fireman, or is it too late?
1consuming for testing out effects is for science anon, stop lying anon
1Like I said, I've never shot anyone. Certainly have friends who do. lol
9what did the guy even do aside from not holding his hands up?
3This is a serious question. Also how long have you been on the force?
2lol. I said I'd ignore troll but I have to say this. Come say to that to my face while I'm in uniform. See where it gets you. Ha ha.
Why did you join the police force? It's a thankless job that pays shit.Is it to get off on the authority or are you actually wanting to "make a difference?"Not trolling. I legitimately wonder why someone would do this and figure it's one of those two reasons.
3are you the same like rest of policemen in usa ? i mean a panicked faggot who shoots unarmed people ?
3How does it feel knowing that any nutjob out there can kill you when you aren't even expecting so?
2Underrated post
1no, I react different to people depending on the type of situation im responding to, in how they choose to present themselves, and their attitude when dealing with them. skin color does not factor into it at the end of the dayin fact, i find many people going out of their way to give the benefit of the doubt to black people for fear of being called a racist lol that isnt even a joke4im all about backup, and if its a situation where you know its gonna be a fist fight and you have time to wait, you would wait for back up. if the guy has a gun or a knife, it doesnt matter if there is a million of you, if he tries to use it, you need to end the threat in a realistic way.id love a body camera, but i want the choice on when i can turn it on and off. I dont need to be filming a naked elderly person who slipped in the bathtub, i dont need to be filming a small child who im interviewing who was a victim of a molestation, i dont need to be filming my cock when i take a pissi also would want the ability to erase things in case for instance, i go to the bathroom and forget to take it off lol.most interactions i have with people., i love it when a camera is on, i always wear a mic and have the dash cam on traffic stops6how many people have you shot in the leg?people often die from leg woundshow does a bullet to the leg stop someone from moving their index finger and shooting you?9college degree, stay out of trouble, score high on exam, be in shape, good credit, good job history, friends who dont get in trouble
9HAHA ABUSE OF AUTHORITY IS FUN!
4Already answered. But basically, because I'm not a coward like you.
7They're not unarmed once they grab your pistol out of its holster
Why are you racist?
Why do you kill black children?
3I've been thinking on becoming a Police Detective, bad idea?
4WOWW QU4DS
Why are you pretending to be a police officer?
How many mexicans have you arrested?
2This is a serious question
4Hardly abuse of authority. If you disrespect a cop, prepare to get your ass handed to you. Freedom of speech has limitations, and disrespecting a cop while he is on duty is basically obstructing justice and is an arrestable/punishable crime. So if you were to come up to me and say that while I'm in uniform, I could essentially take you down and it would be within the law.
Why do you steal money from the dead niggers you kill?
3do you consider you de-escalation training to be enough to deal with real life situations? ?
2Well, yes. Crime is crime. I really feel no sympathy for any criminals.
3Do you tip the person who gives you your coffe and/or donuts?
8...you realize all you're doing is confirming the fact that you can abuse your authority with impunity, right?Go catch a bullet, pig.
9No, you would be one of the elite. Definitely not a bad idea. Ha ha.1I'm not.
What do you think about the rising obesity rates in law enforcement?
2i generally do not charge for weed. you need to talk yourself into me charging you with it ie act like an asshole i think all drugs should be legalized, regulated and taxed. only way to get somewhat of a handle on things and end all the violence surrounding the drug trade. until that happens, you using those hard drugs, directly supports the very thing i want stopped, so i will arrest you. kids who are first time offenders, generally do not get the book thrown at them for drugs2i go home and i have no homework! lol
Why did you choose the most maggot faggot career possible?
Why are you enforcing the rule of a corrupt government that is dismantling people's privacy rights? You are a nazi.
7/thread
Why do you keep skipping the questions pertaining to drugs? They all are perfectly valid questions
8freedom of speech has limitationsStopped reading there.
6lol, trying to impress people with words like 'impunity'. Nice threat by the way, you're lucky this is an anonymous website. Of course, we could always find out who you were if we felt like it...
, 
, 
, 
Mion Games V93 part 3Don't leave, Ilya, gotta do something for your winner screen.
3ImplyingComo si nunca hubiese estado fuerte
2REJOICE NIGGER IS DEAD
2Nice one, Ilya!
2Again..
4Wow Scientist-san, you sure are a badass AND handsome scientist! I can't wait for you to rule the world with some insane laser gun or something~
4
5What if I told you that replying to us literally means breaking character to look cool in front of your internet friends?Oh I'm sorry, I knew it was b8 all along!
Must not take it...
2Congrats
2Ayy caramba , better luck next time Spider Nigger
2YEAH!~
Good job IIya!!0You too Jungo, you made it to the end!
Just in case you didn't see, False-King Kun~0And you're a pretentious prick who thinks the money he has lets him become a king and assert authority. All kings are eventually overthrown. Kings also don't fight. Kings sit there on their throne, while the real warriors fight. I could kill you with the blink of an eye, it's just fun to toy with you.
2Well, congrats Ilya.
2Congrats Ilya-chan~
9I took the blue pill once, when i banged your mum, cause i couldn't get it up, nigger.
2Congrats Ilya! It's all thanks to that fashion sense of yours!You're not even trying now! Actually, you'd have to try really hard to say such words, so I'll give you that. It must have been hard.
Grats Ilya
6Kings don't fight? That may be true, but you should realise that I am not just a King, but also a Knight!I am a member of the Order of no Quarter after all. I am the most humble and the bravest among them after all.
4Not only that, he's really nice~Okabe really is perfect!
2Go Ilya!!
2Congratulations, Ilya.
23ILYA!!!!!!!!!!! CONGRATULATIONS BEST FRIEND!!
1Why are you bald?
5
6If you like, I could tell you a story too? The story about how the first Avatar came to be? I read about him while I was studying with the Air Nomads...
0He doesn't like that we call him nice~
This was a good game!
23Finally I can post after 15 minutes.Ilya you might win this one my dear handmaiden, but be aware. The red wedding is coming to your prom. You better be prepared, this time we will succeed. Congratulations on this one however, the time is not here yet to make it red.
5What else did you do to my mum?Isn't it nice to have someone give a shit about what you say for once? I know that feeling all too well. I get more replies than you.What if I told you that you'll never be at my level of shitpost awakening?
3YES!~Tackles
2Congrats IIya
2Congratulations Ilya!
1What if I told you that I was breaking character to talk to myself?
Congratulations Illya.
1I'd have to take those titles and pin them on others, because you're neither! Quoting a great woman, You're naught but a decadent dandy!Let's see... Most humble, probably Propeller Knight, and Bravest, Probably Polar Knight.
9For chaos Littlefinger!~
5He doesn't like any compliments at all, so modest~
3You got me killed I trusted you
8implying you could ever be a shitposter like me
8Who said i was shitposting, son? I did bang your mom once. Tell her to get herself checked for genital warts. Unless she is the blue waffle monster.
4I couldn't have said it better myself. I'll make sure to bump you up to a upper middle class status.
So who is our next host?
Godfather..It's true it seems Ilya has won the gamesThank you.. it seems my time has come, prepare the family.. today is the day.
Joining the next game Ryuko?
Painwheel
4That would be greatly appreciated, actually. Do go on.
7humblePropeller KnightNigga, have you ever even played Shovel Knight?
Hello, fellow combatants. When are the next games starting? I would like to blood my blade before attending the Red Wedding...
2I just came backSpider Nigger was close to win againmfw when that winner
0Spins around and hugs!!You did well. I'm going to bed nao okay. I'll be on later. Love you!!
8Post it in the next thread.
7That's it i had enough of your big mouth?!? YOU WANT ME TO PROVE MYSELF! I WILL! I WILL PIN YOUR HEAD ON A TREE IN THE NEXT TURN AND TAKE A PISS ON IT!
9I know you're kind, Scientist-san, you can bump me even higher~9True!
5You know it!
2What if I told you you pathetic google search references barely qualify as good RP. You should start RPing your gorilla, maybe you'll understand soon enough.
9Check you later, nigga. Peace!
8We have to climb the ladder to chaos don't you agree? We're so close handmaiden, yet so far away, time and faith will direct us to our goal as the seven bless us. The bigger question is however, will anyone survive and if they do, how many of their friends will be alive?
08Good job on your victory IIya!Hugs!I have to go back soon so i will see you later.
5you can bump me even higher~This sounds wrong.
9Not gonna lie, that thumbnail looks like you are groping yourself at first glance.
8One day Vader, one day..
59Oooh, bump me up too Okabe, king of kindness~
2There's no wedding. You were rused. It's a prom
8Google search references? Are you on crack, nigger? Shorty must be selling some bad stuff.
3Yeah, I play it on long trips. His way of combat is humble, I'd say. Especially when you talk to him in the Tower of Fate.5See you next games! Maybe I'll put you out of your misery as you grovel at my feet instead of torturing you slowly. Probably not~!
Mion I'm going to bed!! Wanna come lie down with me till I pass out??
2Oh dear
9Goodbye Miss Ta!My phone is about to die, so I shall be on later as well.Farewell.
ILYA, YOU HERE?
5No can do Nepgear. Theres only enough room for me at the top. Me and T-pain actually.8Nepgear is pure though.
1Mhm!
2inb4 bwoomersSweet dreams!
929Oh fuck, cannot unsee
2Of course.
1Welp, now she's starting to seem like the old Maka. It was fun while it lasted.
4Go away.2Yes!
8What if I told you I'm gay and that I want your big, black cock in my boypussy?
5I was thinking about asking Re to go but there's already too many ships, so I guess I'll just be sitting it out.
7Jeez, can't take a joke? Okabe hates being called kind, I was messing with him.
88There you go, anon-san
5Good to hear gaurdian, just.. try not to push me off a cliff or in a pit
4FUCK YOU SHION SHOVE THAT SMILE UP YOUR ASS.
9Bye Ta!~ Love you more!~6You have fun now Airi, good luck!~
8
5Nepgear is pure though.And it will hopefully stay this way.
7
31I have to refresh the page and wait 30 seconds to update the thread, please do respond.
1Yes.
9Shoving something up Shion's ass?
7CHECKED
7You got dubs, so do you force a cabbage up Shion's ass?
7
7Check'd
1You're going to be lower class Maka. It's the best I can do.7Except old Maka wouldn't say stuff like that to some dude. She was into chicks, remember?9We'll protect her smile, Endo-sama.
5Heyy, I bet you have room for me and Maka as well~
1I'll see you then, I hope!
7FUCK
7Well, would you look at that!
0I guess i can, but Mion said she wont host or what ?
2CONGRATULATIONS, ILYA!
2Okay! So...our story begins many years ago, about 10,000 in fact. During that time, our world and Spirit World were one, and people lived on these giant Dragon Turtles, I've only met one in my life so far...but anyway! On one of those Dragon Turtle cities lived a boy named Wan. Wan was, so to say, a poor criminal. He lived in a treehouse with his friends, and used to steal food to feed him and his friends. He always stole from a rich family, the Chou family. They were the richest in town. But one day, he got chased down the streets by two Chou brothers and caught, so he needed to go home with just a little bit of food. So, he devised a plan to get more food than ever before...
5I'll give you that one.
5Followed by trips!
1-Mion
39I won't change, guys~
Hey Shion...
1I'm here for ya shion~ paws at
2I thought they were Lion-Turtles?
2Damn this is a nice picture, thanks for posting it.
6Huh? I'd never do anything like that to you
9king knight will agree
13Thank you Mion!~
3cody
3I keep an eye on that white haired guy at prom. If he does anything wrong I'm going to smash his ass.
2simon
8My dubs say no.4Scratches chinI've always wanted a cat..
2finn
1That's awesome.
3finn
7I just want you to be careful.
4OFFBYONE
8Remove all is winningThis is for real ?
9As I wouldn't to you but sometimes RNG demands it dear
45My trips support Adachi so you need trips+ to deny it whore.
4Did someone say cat?
9Nope. I have no more room. Maybe enough for Mao if he decides to take up an instrument so we can make a band.
9This is my first try at an animated winner screen. Wanted to do it for a long time, decided to do it starting with you!
0I didn't mean numbers, darling. Double weapons.
3It means all suicide events...
6Somebody is gonna get laid tonight!
8Remove dysentery, this shit always kills me.
4Nyaaa~
3I will~1I had planned to ask Scientist-san, but he already had someone to go with~
2Are you really bringing a sword and a taser to a gunfight?
3But she got dubs, you have to accept us!
6Yeah! It looks great!~
what the fuckFilename
3Yeah you dooo~
9this shit always kills me
9Oh yeah... Well, hopefully we won't have to face each other much if it makes us. But if it does, no hard feelings
1You don't have the balls to shoot me, you just want to ram a cabbage up my ass.. I'd love to see you try to get near me. Also, my dubs counter anyways.
9New strawpollon, remove all suicide its just, akward
3Is chainsaw an instrument?
1Dubs arn't even that impressive. Look, even I can get dubs!
20I too, thought so... Perhaps they were different in that time, though. It was long ago, after all.
0Yes, Lion-Turtles, I'm sorry...I got confused with Iroh's story, hehe...2Back then, outside of the Lion-turtle cities, there were the Spirit Wilds. A jungle-like landscape where the spirits lived. Hunting parties would go out into the Wilds to gather food and supplies for the city. But, before they went out, they would go and speak with the Lion-turtle their city was built on. You see, back then, the Lion-turtles had the power to give people bending, and every time they would hunt, the Lion-turtle would give them bending. In this case, the hunters would get firebending.Wan joined the group of four hunters that were preparing to leave the city and venture into the Spirit Wilds. Although the lead hunter was skeptical at first to let Wan join, Wan was allowed to accompany them since there were no other willing volunteers. As such, the young man traveled with the hunters to face the fire lion turtle, the guardian of their city, to receive the power of firebending, which enabled them to defend themselves against the hostile spirits living in the Spirit Wilds. Soon after the group set off, Wan pretended to chicken out and was subsequently ordered to go back to the lion turtle to return his newly acquired ability. However, Wan did not return to the lion turtle and instead returned to the city directly, keeping his firebending. With it, he inspired several other poor people to disguisedly join him on a raid on the Chou palace. Although the raid was going smoothly at first, the Chou brothers called in reinforcements and Wan was captured and unmasked. He was brought before the lion turtle, and although the creature permitted him to keep his firebending at his request, Wan was banished to the Spirit Wilds for his crimes.
3
0No.
4I'm glad it worked out!8Probably not.
3Oh yes, very impressive.
0I think you should let the cabbage be shoved up your ass Shion. It would be a nice change of pace.
0class="quote"NO OPTION FOR KEBAB
0Off by three that time.Just bend over and take it, I'll be nice and properly lube it up.
3You fail, check these though!
8Maybe if you guys outlive me next game I'll consider it.9Sure! It's a practical one at that. You can get some sick beats out of it.6T-that was just a warmup!
4Though you should let me join you and Ta for a night!~ Last time was quite enjoyable no?~
0Warming up for a failure seems pretty impractical.
0I've removed all suicides except for one double suicide event during the day and one single suicide event during the night. I want to see people kill each other, not themselves.
3holy fuck same last two
98Come on, if i delete all suicides, the game will have a lot of peace, i think the better i can do is remove suicide pacts and dysentery
9I CALL UPON THE POWER OF KITCHEN GUN TO REMOVE THE SINGLE STAINS FROM MY POST.href="#p619764764" class="quotelink"4Never!
3Pfft. Check these
7OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHDUBS SHOWS THE TRUE FAILURE OF OKABE, EVEN MAKA CAN GET DUBS.
9This is quite a story, I would love to stay for its conclusion.
59As he wandered the Spirit Wilds, Wan was on edge, shooting at every spirit he encountered. While running away from a large frog spirit that wanted to trample him, Wan got eaten by a plant, though managed to save himself with his bending. He ran on until he collapsed from exhaustion on an open grassy spot. However, much to his surprise, the grass started to wrap itself around him and pulled him under. He used his fire to save himself from a certain death by suffocation and continued his journey through the wilderness. Afraid to lower his guard in the hostile environment, he remained awake the entire night.By morning, his hunger and exhaustion prompted him to stop at what he perceived to be a fruit-carrying tree. As he tried to sink his teeth in what he thought was a fruit, the fruit turned out to be a swarm of bees hurdled together that promptly attacked Wan for his disturbance. Wan's desperate attempt to get away from the angered insects led him to fall off a cliff. As he landed, he found himself looking at a peaceful island-like oasis with more fruit trees. Still hungry, he made his way over toward the little island, though found his path blocked by an aye-aye spirit, who appeared out of nowhere before him and told him he was not welcome at the oasis. Wan tried to reason with the spirit, telling the entity that he was hungry and in need of sleep. However, when the spirit coldly told him that it was not his problem, Wan attempted to force the spirit aside by firebending at him. Enraged, the spirit met Wan's challenge, easily evading his attacks. Wan walked away in defeat, but when he noticed that several other spirits were granted access to the oasis, he covered himself in leaves and branches, disguising himself as "Bushy, the Bush Spirit". He briefly managed to fool the oasis guardian, but the latter was able to discover his deception through his human scent. When ordered to return home, Wan revealed that he was banished.
0Challenge accepted!
Remove trees!
0Let hit happen Shion!~Ilya
4
3Nice 73 Nepgear.7God damn you and your dubs. I'll make sure to wipe that smile from your face soon enough.Kyouma
0if dubs+ Shion does not get a cabbage stuck up her ass, but instead shoves a taser up Adachis ass.
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
Hereinspaziert!Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?Scheiß auf andere Fragen.Mir geht nichts durch den Kopf, totale leere.
Stoß.
3Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?Angst, Hoffnung und Panik in einer munteren Mischung
3Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?lemon skunk mischeScheiß auf andere Fragen.k
wurde vorhin auf /b/ fertig gemacht und obwohl anonym, hats mich persönlich getroffen. meint ihr auch dass gott mih nicht sonderlich liebt?
1es gibt keinen gott, aber wir haben dich lieb bruh.
1Heute schon mal in den Spiegel geschaut ?Das sollte die Frage beantworten...
sagt mal ne brauchbare serie. muss nicht unbedingt neu sein. so science fiction oder thriller oder horror oder so
3Kirchentagsanon ist wieder hier.War heute wieder Jailbait ansabbern.Irgendwie ergibt man sich seinem Schicksal und versucht es doch zu genießen.Vielleicht creepe ich morgen mal bissle.
0Orphan Black
3nicht er, aber.warum so gemein?du bist auch ein versager bernd.
9War gerade in der Stimmung dazu...
3Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?schau mir die reaktionen zur petition an. wieder lustige aktion von /b
1Hast du nicht etwas zu tun?
8Schreibblockade
3was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?Mir auch nichts ehrlich gesagt, ich werde erst nachts wirklich Philosophisch
welcher von euch niggern hat eigentlich dieses bild gemacht?
0Es gibt Bronies in DE?Gibt es auch schon die Fat Acceptance hier?
0ich hätte das teil angezündet und dann erst ein bild gemacht
6Schlimmer, hier gibts islam akzeptanz
5Stimmt.
6Es gibt Bronies in DE?bronies.dekek
1Omfg.Aber die haben noch keine eigenen Konventionen oder?
bin diese woche aus Köln nach Baden gefahren families besuchen, war heute auf unser berggarten grillen.tolles wetter, schöne zeiten.das leben ist gut.
1bronies.de
2weiß nicht, es gibt aber ein unterforum für treffen
6Scheiße Bernd.Der Japan-Tag war schon zu viel.
6woher weis du das?wieso gehs du auf ein brony webseite?
8Für dich zumindest ;
6du bist doch einen von denen! du hurensohn!
5wieso gehs du auf ein brony webseite?weil mich gerade interessiert wie groß diese community in deutschland schon ist.
3finde ich trotzdem verdächtig.
2tut mir leid, bin gegen diese "westliche schuldgefühle" zeug immun.
2Stellst du Ermittlungen an?
0was habt ihr gegen bronies ihr hurensöhne? meine freundin hat auch diese macke aber hey was solls?und ich finde nicht dass ihr in der situation seid bronies runterzumachen alter, sonst kriegt ihr es mit mir zu tun.hoffentlich habt ihr das verstanden, ich kann ziemlich gefährlich werden.
7meine freundinverpiss dich
2kannst du finden wie du willst. einen richtigen brony siehst du hier:7lol
71/10
Jetzt wird er schon vom Drachenlord drangsaliert. ;_;
7"hurensohn" ist als beleidigung viel zu ausgenutzt. muss dir was besseres einfallen lassen, hat so gut wie keine wert als beleidigung mehr.wie kannst du denn gefährlich sein? du weis nicht einmal wer wir sind.gib dir mehr mühe.
7Schlechter Köder
5halts maul judendreck
Wie finde ich freunde in einer kack stadt?
4ziemlich geil.nicht vergessen:
2schon etwas besser, allerdings sind beleidigungen dann am effektivsten wenn man den anderen nicht nur beleidigt sondern sich auch als intellektual/moralisch überlegen darstellen kann.
7das sind kleine comic ponnies.Okay jeder hat irgend ein komischen fetisch, aber cartoon ponnies?Guck doch Family Guy oder so.
Hat ein von euch das Parfum schon gesehen?
7Nein, aber gelesen
2scheiß jemandem vor die tür
6hör auf soviel zu schreiben ich lese deinen schwachsinn eh nicht du stück scheiße
7ja, gesehen. nichts besonderes
7Ein Meisterwerk der beste Film der Welt! 5*
2verpiss dich doch auf /mlp du behindertes stück omegascheiße
3Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?Da ist n Weib über die ich ne zeit nachdenken muss. Wir schreiben hin und wieder aber mehr nich. Kein plan was ich tun soll, Anonyme?
225 wörter sind für dich "viel"?
1er liebt dich anon
6was labberst du?
4Frag sie nach einem Treffen.Oder bist du ein Bernd?
Was geht euch gerade durch den Kopf?Ein Hefeweizen.
5Hab sie schon gefragt und weil ich ziemlicher stoner bin und sie auch will auf ne tüte aber dieses wochenende keine zeit
9Ich hab's gerade bei Deutsche Klasse angesehen. Bisschen fremd für in die Schule
achja ich hab letztens mit shampoo gewichst, was muss ich tun damit alles wieder normal wird?
8erst einmal pics posten. no homo.
6no homoja ja, alles klar!
9das is ne idee..würdest du dich alleine in ne kneipe setzen?
6no homo.
4willst du nun rätschläge oder nicht?
5
9ich bin der mit dem ausgetrocknetem schwanz nich er
5kek
4zyzz hats echt geschafft man.
9yo, in einer sauna krepiert. total geschafft, kek
3nein, ich würde mich generell nie in eine kneipe setzen
0Wie soll man denn sonst Leute kennen lernen in ner neuen Stadt?Bin nicht gerade der extrovatierteste.
7seine letzten jahre waren besser als alle meine zusammen.
7Wie soll man denn sonst Leute kennen lernen in ner neuen Stadt?gar nicht. scheiß auf menschen, du spast.
7Finde etwas das dich interessiert und gehe deine Interessen nach.menschen wirst du dan einfach organisch kennenlernen.
5Ich bin hier jetzt aber schon 1 Jahr alleine, ich dachte das ergibt sich schon von alleine.Aber dem scheint nicht so.Jeder braucht Menschen, ich fühl mich grundlegend nicht gut immer alleine zu sein und nur bei der scheiß Arbeit Leute zu sehen die man nicht mag
2Mich interessiert aber leider nichts.Ausserdem muss ich viel arbeiten und hab dann keine Lust was großes zu unternehmen. Muss immer abends / Nachts arbeiten.
6als erstens muss du mit diese jämmerliche selbstmitleid aufhören und aufhören zu denken es wird dir schon von alleine in den schoß fallen.
4Bist du Stricher ?
4so ein schwachsinn. dich interessiert nichts? jeder hat interessen.
Wie gehts Freundin!Ich bin fur zwei Monat Deutsch lernen. Ich suche fur mit Englisch subtitle tv oder film. Hast du empfehlen?
7An hero
7wir synchronisieren jeden scheiß. schau einfach was du sonst auch schaust.abgesehen davon: an hero
2Halt deine fresse du spast. Ich hab kein Mitleid mit mir selber, dieses Wort gibt es gar nicht.Wenn, dann leidet man, wie soll man mit sich selbst MIT leiden?Hurensohn.Ich hab nur gesagt wie es ist.Tu nicht so als ob du nicht gerne Freunde hast, nur weil du seit hundert jahren im Keller hängst
7autsch, das zu lesen tut weh.zu deine frage: so ziemlich jeder dvd die man in DE kauft hat ein englische untertitel option.
0Aber nichts wo man aktiv bei ist.
6mir geht's ähnlich. hab mich aber recht gut dran gewöhnt, bin so seit 5 jahren allein was freundschaften betrifft.wo wohnst du ungefähr?
2autsch, das zu lesen tut weh.ach komm für 2 monate ist das nicht übel
, 
, 
, 
, 
Hey fags I'm going to Berlin tomorrow. Any of you fags know the city? I'll be there like 3 days, what / where things that I must do / go?
Get your leg sawed off by a pervert in a bunny costume.
The only good thing about the city are the clubs. But prepare to get turned down at some, as the "Berlin-Mentality" is kinda like "We may get turned down at one club, but the night is young and we party till we die".Also, stay away from that whole Checkpoint-Charlie stuff. Overpriced as fuck. But generally, the people in Berlin are pretty chill, compared to the rest of Germany. Still plenty of dumb sandniggers and couple of weirdos, but every big city has them.
7where? I don't have too much money.
5I'd like to see one of the Boiler Room events if I'm lucky.
3ANYWHERE. In fact you would have to work very hard to escape Berlin with all your limbs intact.
7Get some coke and go to Tresor faggot, you wont regret it
9To sum up Berlin: Everything there is fucked, except the party scene. So you will be good, if you just want to fuck, get fucked up and remember less than 50% of the nights.
, 
, 
, 
Rate my sister
Mods?
8mod here, what do you want
8too old.
8Forehead/10
7pls rate my sister
You're gonna be an uncle soon
0yea but a great surface area for taking a thick hot gooey load!!
8gr8 b8 m8 ir8 str8 8/8
7how would you rate her?
812 year old trying to look like she's 18 but ending up looking like a cheap hooker. 0/10 in this particular picture.
nudesplz/10
I wanna be the very best
8Best faggot there ever was
To jack off is my real quest
, 
, 
, 
, 
So what was everyone's oppions on this?
8Told to show his hands, reached under his shirt towards his wasteband, got lit up.Next.
3that's what I was thinking. were all tought when an officer pulls his gun at you, put your hands up
3this
Just follow a fucking simple instruction the police gives you, otherwise get rekt nerd. No sympathy for this guy.
3He already had his hands there before he notized the cop.Bad timing and an incompetent cop = rekt.Also do all the murrican cops have these little cameras now?
8Another one bites the dust
GET YOUR HANDS OUT NOWget hands outgets shot immediatlyMurrica everyone.
he had his fucking earphones in so probably couldnt hear them to start with. Reached for his waistband to turn music off?
Honestly the dude deserved to be taken down but not with deadly force, if he's eve dead, just listen to the police your fucking wannabe niggers they will kill you otherwise. It has always been like this people. Be smart or get killed motherfuckers
8retard thinks hes cool ignoring cops with guns pointed at himretard then moves his hands in a way that could possibly be pulling out a weaponretard gets shot for being a retarddarwin award has now been sent to retards family for his amazing intelligence
2GET HANDS OUT NOWdoesn't get hands outftfy
1who the fuck puts the music down instead of just taking off the earphones though?
This is what a justified shooting of an unarmed, completely innocent person looks like. No charges, no crime.It only takes 40 seconds for the cop to get scared enough to shoot the unarmed man.
9just an idea, dont really think the dude deserved to get shothate seeing anyone get killed by fucking little insecure manlet cops unless niggerbot 5000
2We must have watched different videos cause I didn't any hands come out until he hit the ground.
put aside the fact that the cop shot himis it really SOP when you shoot someone to cuff them and then roll them onto their stomach where you fucking just shot them and let them bleed out?what a fucking retard. if you carry a weapon you should at least know how to mitigate the damage you can do.
0I'm more interested why politicians don't have them.
6why? we all know they lie and steal, having a cam aint going to do shit when they ALL are doing it.
8Listen close to when the sound kicks in, idiot says "nah fool"....He was trying to be "hard" and got shot for it.
96He gets his hands out like one second before he gets rekt.
8Did the guy say "shut up, fool!"?.
2I don´t understand why, if you are going to shoot someone, would you not just use something non-lethal.
8shot twice in the chest H-HEY TALK TO ME BUDDYfucking cops are dumb
2yes you cuff suspects even if they are shot, they can always get back up / use a weapon while on the groundon the stomach is where you can see their hands and can visibly identify that they are restrained and pose no threatyou fags dont get it, the police is there to protect people, not protect the dumb nigger acting like a fool
8"Get your hands OUT" is not clear. Everyone expects "up." UP is the norm. "OUT" sounds like "DOWN," the opposite of UP. This is a communication fuckup if nothing else. We can not in any way afford to have clarity problems like this, leading to communication fuckups like this in high stress situations.
7i dunno man i don't see the problem in cuffing him and giving him a pat down. thats what you are suposed to do normally right? otherwise you couldn't put him in the car or anything.so now you know he hasn't got a weapon to use you can have a look at his wound, maybe apply pressure before you realise he's bleeding out so much he's nearly fucking drowning in it.cop didn't want to get his hands dirty?police are going to put themselves out of a job when they kill all the people thay are supposed to be protecting.
So this is how "freedom" looks like?
4And yet instead of working with this tendency to expect "up," the cop created confusion by working against common expectations and saying "out," which sounds more like "down" than like "up." This kind of fuckup is not okay in life and death situations.
8non american here, whats the story? why the hell was the police pointing guns at him in the first place?
3The instructions were not simple. Common expectation is to hear "UP" but the cop threw a wrench in procedure by saying "out" which sounds more like "down" than like "up," so in a high stress fast paced situation like this, a person may sense he's getting contradictory instructions, and hesitate, and get shot.
7Yeah but the cop could of had a taser out instead of a gun, if a guy is just walking away with his hands in his pockets and was refusing to show his hands then bam taser. Its understandable why this idiot got shot but he was clearly in range to be tased if the cop had one. Its like that other video where this guy was sitting on his couch and the cops bust in with a dog and the cops are like "get up and let me see your hands or im sending the dog on you", and the guy doesn't get up and gets his like lower lip bitten off by a police dog.
8American police is shit tier. They are killing people for no reason at all. In every other civiliced country the police would never execute a person like in the vid. Fuck, no wonder people hate the US. Untermensch
Also, screaming at a citizen and pointing a gun at them is likely to lead to freezing, shock and hesitation. Had the cop spoken loudly and authoritatively, rather than sounding like a screaming fucking hog and escalating the situation all on his own, this would have gone much better better.
couldnt care less
9Dunno the whole story but mostly cops pointing a gun at him because "he could have a weapon somewhere on him", and he PROBABLY got shot because he clearly said, "Naw fool", when the cop told him to put his hands up and then he moved his hands under his shirt.
He walked away suspiciously when the cop pulled up. The group matched a description of someone with a gun. His nigger style sagging pants are why he couldn't put his hands up. Irregardless of that he said "whats up fool" to the cop as soon as he turned around which is half way to being fully aggressive. Sure the cop didn't need to shoot him when you get all the facts afterwards and I hate cops too but this is a justified shooting. The quick jerking motion he made when allegedly trying to pull up his pants or turn off the music, which sounds like bs to me, looked exactly like when thugs pull guns from their waistbands. tldr; Don't act like a nigger and you won't get shot like a nigger.
I feel like the reaction was a little too quick on the cops part. Atleast he waited until the guy turned around. And in this case it took him one shot not 8. Then he stood over the guy talking to him instead of hand cuffing him and then framing him for a crime.
5So if you got your hands in your pockets the police can shoot you and then handcuff your lifeless body?
7Guy has headphones on you dumb fuck.
4Yup.I hate tazers because they're usually used by out of shape hogs who can't do their jobs, who can't run, who can't wrestle, but this situation actually does call for one. This sort of situation is exactly the excuse they used to get tazers in the first place. But no, now they use tazers when they're in no danger at all, and use guns the same way they always did. Fucking pigs.
47not going to explain really basic shit to you kidsyoure like living in a bubble where you think cops dont die regularly from niggers with gunsalso tasers dont do shit, if someone is on drugs/ fat/ fit enough they can shrug them off and still kill people
8and it's gone
9Oh shut the fuck up this real life, not a fucking movie. Cops want your hands out and you expecting them to say "Put em in the air!" doesn't mean fucking shit.Here is a play by play of the video.Cops respond to 911 call, three guys exit the building. One of them walks away from the cops, they draw on him and tell him to show his hands. SOMEONE, probably the guy, saws "nah, foo!" as he keeps walking away. He turns, pulls up his shirt and reaches for his wasteband. Maybe he was trying to turn off his ipod, don't mean fucking shit, he turned lifted his shirt and reached for his wasteband. Cop fires two shots.Is it a good thing? NoIs it exactly what anyone with half a fucking brain who understands the police do have real authority and how things work in the real world should expect to happen? Yes.
9 He walked away suspiciously when the cop pulled up. He did walk away, but why say "suspiciously"? What would it have looked like for him to walk away non-suspiciously? I think you're saying "suspiciously" just because he simply walked away. I think you're unjustifiably implying that walking away is inherently suspicious ie threatening, mean while in truth, walking away is 100% non-aggressive and non-threatening.
1Being a cop is not even in the 10 top deadliest professions. Truckers, miners, roofers, etc have a higher chance of dying.
1Uneducated dumb fuck detected.
7Dude, just shut the fuck up. The cop said out because he had his hands under his shirt. Don't act like the fuckhead didn't know what the cop meant you fucking nigger.
7He wasnt obeying the officer and then made super jerky hand movements which really made him look like he was reaching for a weapon. 1youre a fucking idiot a taser locks up muscles it doesn't matter how fat or fit you are if the guy doesnt have a gun out tasing is a pretty reasonable option
9"Get your hands OUT" is not clear.yes it isEveryone expects "up." UP is the norm. "OUT" sounds like "DOWN," the opposite of UP.thats fkin stupid
Completely justified. Told him to get his hands out of the front of his pants, where gangsters usually hide their handguns, he pulled them out quickly, officer had to react, he was not going to take a chance.
8Honestly, while I think he didn't hear them with the headphones in, he fucked up by not putting up his hands and then lifting his fucking shirt. Fuck, any reasonable person would just put their hands up.
Why couldn't he just graze his arm or something as a warning? Fucking pigs
6"Oh shit, a cop is pointing a gun at me and yelling""Better keep my hands in my shirt and call him a fool"
I really like how the cop is trying to keep him alive after he shot him twice in the chest. And he handcuffed the fukken guy.
6Oh shut the fuck up this real life, not a fucking movie.People watch movies in real life, you fucking moron. Like it or not, this influences what they expect, especially in high-stress situations when there's no time to sit down and thoughtfully criticize the source of your own memories.
5Truckers, minders, roofers etc don't get to shoot and kill any mild threat they see.
4I know why he said out, that's obviously why he said out. That in no way refutes anything I said. "Out" still sounds more like "down" than like "up," and putting the hands up would necessarily mean they were out of the pants. There was absolutely no excuse for saying "out" rather than "up." You stupid fucking waste of food piece of shit.
ITT dumb asses or deaf assesWithout a doubt he heard the cops.You can clearly hear him say "nah, fool" when told to take his hands out of his pants.cops shot AFTER he was starting to pull his hand up in a manner that makes it seem like he had a gun.100% justified
7See, this guy gets it.
2No it isn't. As I said, "out" sounds more like "down" than like "up," especially when screamed by a squealing, overreacting hog.dats fkn stupidherpy derp tooKill yourself, faggot.
4yes, 3 times to hear that but he did, "yo fool" or something...next..
5If someone was screaming at me in a piggy panic while pointing a gun at me, I'd be afraid to make any movement at all. A man who is freaking out the way the cop showed he was freaking out is trigger-happy. The cop did not at all communicate any willingness to be calm or reasonable. It's very hard to figure out the safest way to proceed when I cop is freaking out and screaming over fucking nothing like a little piggy coward.
8You say in a calm manner "I'm going to take my hands out slowly", and then do so slowlyNot turn around and call the cop a fool
8Cops are cunts, If I'm innocent I will make life hard for them... But I live in a place where stabbings are rife so if I'm carrying it's better to be chill, so you don't get searched? The police don't care
555Watch the video again you idiot and don't forget... The group, dead guy and dudes by the red truck, match a description of someone waving a gun around. Dead guy stands with the group watching the cop pull up, the cop was watching them as he pulled up, as soon as he gets out the guy walks away and THEN puts his hands in his pants. Suspicious as fuck to anyone who is observant. Once again, don't act like a nigger and you won't get shot like a nigger. If he had his god damn pants secure with a belt like a real man he wouldn't have been shot... Unless he still ACTED like a nigger by shit talking the cop instead of COMPLYING like any citizen who had nothing to hide would do. Any sane, non retarded person would raise their hands if they were yelled at by a cop and turned around to see a gun their face. This dumb fuck didn't, he made a sudden motion and paid the price for being a wannabe nigger.
6when you grow up you'll figure out what a stupid idea this is. try putting yourself in the cops position. you would have shot the fucker too.
7starting to pull his hand up in a manner that makes it seem like he had a gun.That's not what I see. Please describe in detail the difference between the manner of pulling the hands out with a gun, and the manner of pulling the hands out without a gun.
6Are you retarded? Cops don't train for wounding shots. When your life is in danger you do not take a risk with a shot that will probably miss. This is not Hollywood. In this case, if there were multiple cops, one of them should have tased him. The other should have used sidearms as a backup in the case that the perp got a weapon out. But fuck him, should have listened to the cops. If your not a criminal, it would have taken a few minutes to talk to the cops and be on your way. Act like a tough guy and die.
0How do you expect the cop to hear you? This is exactly the problem when the cop is being a screaming little pussy.
8found the nig nog
9I would have shot him with a tazer. Not a gun. This is supposed to be what cops have tazers for.
8All american cops deserve to fucking diePutting handcuffs on someone who is obviously dying and unarmed bleeding on the floorfuckign pigs, i would kill his entire familyfuck you cop im gonna find you and kill you
9I'm not a nigger so this wouldn't be a problem for me, cops actually listen to white people.
5Yeah, they die from accidents. Not from idiots trying to be hard. Troll harder
5Get reports of 3 people flashing a gunfind people that match description2 put hands up immediatelyother turns and walks away.How is that not suspicious?If they were the suspects they were looking for and 2 immediately comply, 9 times out of 10, the guy not complying/trying to get away will be the one with the gun.BtfoYou are as bad as a nigger This is why our country is fucked up, cuz dumb asses start assuming shit without knowing the hole story.Holy fuck /b/ when did you get so retarded
8he literally shoved his hands up his shirt, not taking his hands out and then to the side but put his shirt.
9Suspicious means you can kill themAMERICA everyoneIn the rest of the world cops only shoot when there is a treatthis cops deserves the chair
6Inbred nigger
4guy looks pretty white to me
Americans are so fucking backwards it's unbelievable, this is normal for you people, you're not better than the niggers you all bitch about on here.That being said, there won't be any violent riots and looting over this because he's white.
8Jerking your hand up like its holding your dick compared to raising your hands.
0There is the nignog
8really not sure if youre trolling when the cop tells him to put his hands up and then the guy says NAW FOOL.
7I doesn't mean fucking shit what they see in a fucking movie. Iron man didn't jet out of the sky to save him either, but movies told him that too!
8Haha his name is dillon and he's white and fat and refused to put his hands out and nowhe's dead how typical of a dillon fucking trash
seems like he probably shouldnt have made like he had a weapon in his waistband when a cop had a gun pointed at him. sucks tho but i cant blame the cop. in those instances its a them or me scenario and for as much as people want to give them shit, all it takes is one time for them to let their guard down and not assume the worst and that cop wouldve been the one lying in a pool of his own blood.with that being said, there are a lot of instances where cops are just bad at their jobs and are more interested in preserving their machismo than doing their job. but lets be honest you can cherry pick just about anything anymore.
Cop's are people Horrible butprosecutors who jail you
04White europeanSo not listening to a cop means you can be executed on sight?Goddamn America is worse than i thoughtAs long as there is not a threat you cant kill, in the normal worldAmerica is like fuckign Isis countries
8"get your hands out""nah fool"Are you all fucking seriously justifying that?You know it would be one thing if this was about a honers student leaving the library wearing a dress shirt and khakis and getting shot for no reason but rather what we have here is a young guy on fucking parole violation while having a BAC of .18 and while looking like a derelict along with friends who were reportedly "carrying and flashing weapons". and oh yeah, hes 20 and shouldn't be drinking anyway.Yeah yeah yeah. "you cant judge him for that, thats profiling!" "He committed no crime!"If you walked into ANY fucking business today looking for a job and dressed and spoke that disrespectfully to the employer you wouldn't have a fucking leg to stand on.Please... if you walked into a bank wearing a ski mask/gloves and all black do you think people would just carry on like nothings happening? When i was younger i was taught to stay out of trouble, to dress and present myself in a respectful manner and to be polite, especially to police officers. Not to act like a fucking disrespectful imbecile showing off that he's a "big man" in front of the police. You dont fucking intimidate a police officer when they are pointing guns at you. You fucking get on the ground and put your hands up and resolve the situation by respectfully talking.
5When the suspect matches someone carrying a firearm?So if he had a gun and the cop tazed him, what would happen?
Pretty good lung shot there.
anyone got the vid?
8couldn't shoot him in the legs, huh? .
Earbuds kill.Also, would have him killed for wearing Starter boxers.
4well then he couldtn fire his gun right?also what are legsshoot in leg firstdoes a gun appear?No?Oh well he can liveAmericans are so goddamn retarded jesus Someone please post a picture and a name of this cop
8When it comes down to his life or the cops?If he had a gun and the cop didnt shoot when he did the cop would be dead
37pretty much these.in a country where guns are as common as candy, you cant for a moment take a situation like this lightly
8Here is your choices:Give up a few of the liberties you think you have and help a cop do his job so he can move onto the real problems.Act stupid in front of a cop who has his weapon trained on you and make actions that are associated with endangering lives.One you walk away from and can tell tubmlr about how you have been violated and one your parents get to see you in a coffin.
3WHEN IT COMES DOWN YESjesus christ there is no fucking talking to you guysWhen was the cop in danger or anyone? Someone post name and pic of cop
8I'm glad that a number of people see this for what it really is. The fucker didn't listen. The initial encounter is forgiveable. He had headphones in and didn't see the officer. But once you turn around and see a person pointing a goddamn gun at you, put your fucking hands up. I think it is so retard that people use "he was unarmed" as some sort of excuse. The cops didn't fucking know that you dolts. I've seen a bunch of videos of cops that are too fucking leniant, and get fucking killed by crooks and shit. Ultimately, they have to assume the worst. If they don't, then they're putting their lives at risk. Just put your fucking hands up you piece of shit. Fucking autists screaming "fuck the police". I hope a cop kills you one day.
7so madur explanation is dumb as fuck deal wit it
All these people pretending to be retarded Americans.Who here seriously thinks it's ok for a cop to kill someone when there isn't a threat?Who?Seriously?I fucking hope your mother gets shot one day by a pig like this
8so what happened to his face?
Reminds me of this videole tacticool arrive on magic carpet vandoor not openHEADDOWNDAHSDNEOAHWEADDOWNHEANDSUIOAGEADOEDOWN
5Ok so hes been tazed. But wait what you dont know is that hes high on pcp/sherm so the tazer doesnt work.Now what?I bet you also think that you should fire warning shots too?
6he deserved to die anyway why not have a good person like a cop kill him right there instead of him going and knocking up your fourteen year old daughterno one deserves to die in any capacity but at least it was entertaining this time you know
6FORGOT LINK 
6Someone post name and pic of copwhy? because you are going to do something about it?STFU asshat
3I bet you also think that you should fire warning shots too?1/10 bad troll8Yes, i am going to post pics of it online calling him a murderer, which he isits the least i can do from the other side of the world where people dont get executed by cops and cops almost never got shot too
8I´m not sure if he wanted to get shot, or just incredibly stupid...I wouldn´t fuck around if people were pointing guns at me.
dillon done fucked up.
8Act like a nig, you're gonna get nogged
9I'll spell it out for you.the guy walking away with his hands in his belt is the threat. thats why he got fucking shot.
1SuperSJW
7This is very true do you watch the news oh you do so what's wrong with what happened by anyones standardsOh wait. You're very convicted in your opinion and startled up on 4chan /b/ lol
1Kid i just killed you with logic.
2whitey getting serious
7THIS!The moron did exactly what you are not suposed to do when YOU DID NOTHING AND YOU HAVE NOTHING TO HIDE.
7shooting him in hte legs would have ben enough don't you thinkdoesn't matter how many times they shot, atleast it would have been enough to get him down without actually killing him.
1Oh wait. You're very convicted in your opinion and startled up on 4chan /b/ lolhuh? wha?
What's wrong with shooting him somewhere like an arm or leg?
4Prolly just some tumblrinas trying to raid us8Word to your mother.
It's amazing how many cops are in this thread. You can always tell a cop because of the way they speak and the lingo they use. All of them, without exception, will ALWAYS rabidly defend the execution of any civilian. Like it's their right to execute anyone who doesn't "comply" with their orders.The cops ITT demonstrate a psychological profile that is shared by most drawn to law enforcement. It is the ability to subdue, dominate and force others into submission for psychological and emotional gratification. They are trained to speak in ways to sound convincing to a jury even when there is no probable cause or reason. All under the color of authority. If you talk to their families you'll find that at home they run over them like a freight trains, psychologically and emotionally abusing everyone around them.Sick fucks, every one of them.
4whats wrong with shooting a wigger?
3was wearing earbuds - reaches his phone in his pocket to stop the music
4You don't aim when you're in a situation like that and not everyone is solid snake7You're a dumbass for being serious here in any capacity and you're a dumbass normally too.4No one would do that fearing for their safety in this media scramble toiling up your Salt Lake City police officer mind. I would have head-shotted him0Oooh trips getting real fucking emotional today6Absoultely nothing at all
44Holy fuck!if he had a gun...shooting him in the legs or arms would have still made it possible for him to shot back at the cop.
4Higher possibility to miss which could cause a ricochet or put others in dangerHence why you aim for center mass
6Well I'd say that it's a complete disregard of a humans life but this is /b/ so fuck nigger and kikes Would a taser not be satisfying enough?
4shooting someone in a limb is much harder than you are making it out to be. if you miss you could be fucked. you shoot as the largest surface area which is almost certain to take the person down. the chest. a resilient person, a drugged up person, can take a shot to the leg and still fire back. a quick draw and a miss to the leg could mean death for the cop. youre probably trolling tho so its whatever
0Same guy who's gonna call 911 when he needs help.
5a leg shot is just as lethal as a chest woundArmy 35M
8Worthless fuckin asshole pigs. Something needs to be done the fuck about this, these fuckin useless pricks are getting away with murder. Fuckin assholes, NEVER respect a cop.
24firing multiple shots at his legs , c'mon man you'd atleast hit a few times
1Yeah as soon as I saw all the air bubbles in his blood I knew he was a goner, how the cop didn't I'll never know. Unless he was in a state of shock trying to delude himself
2You're a dumbass for being serious here in any capacity and you're a dumbass normally too.because i asked someone to talk/type more clearly?just leave.
2how did it feel to type that out and receive no bites?
8Dillon Taylor, 20, is clearly looking at the officer but refuses to take his hands out of his waistband as he was ordered to do and continues to walk backwards."No, fool," Taylor is heard saying.Moments later, Taylor quickly lifts his shirt and takes his hands out of his waistband. Salt Lake police officer Bron Cruz reacts by firing two quick shots, striking Taylor in the chest and stomach. Taylor died as a result of his injuries."No, fool," Taylor is heard saying.That's why he's dead, that's why the cop didn't get charged. The moral of the story is: follow instructions when they are given by someone pointing a gun at you.
3what are other people
1I guess but he fucking killed him if I were the cop I'd just have relied on my weapons training, kept the firearm aimed at his legs, and if he tries to pull a weapon either kick him in the back of his neck or if it's a gun shoot him in the leg a few more times lol3Yeah that's always a viable option clearly2Because you don't know if he has a weapon with his wigger azzSalt lake city is the direct center of the bible belt in america2That's not true for police officers typically1not in real life when there's a hospital 2 block away bitchyou're on /b/ because you're a private pyle3Naturally1Yes clearly that's what I meant to say :
2Nope it's possible to ask a serious question, what about a taser would that not subdue him?
0"I hope a cop kills you one day" the autism is strong with this one.
7What about a taser will save you in front of a mob of gangsters compared to a gunHe was following training prid pro quo
1whenever someone answers multiple people at once like this, unless they are the OP, they are for sure sitting forward excitedly in their chair relishing all the people that are responding to their bait. their one regret is that their eager fingers can only type so fast
1learn anatomy kid, your thigh is literally full of arteries, thats why a broken femur is considered critical condition, good thing that hospital that was 2 blocks away took 7 minutes to get there
7Like i said earlier tazers dont work on people that are high on certain drugs.Pcp/sherm/sometimes meth
1 if I were the copfuck you dude, you have no idea what you're talking about, reality =/= movies
7tasers don't always work. you use a tasers when you arent in a situation where you could die.
5Lets taste those tumblr tears
9not putting your hands up and just pulling the ear buds outbeing dumb enough to reach into your pocket when a cop tells you to put your hands up.
0You are a fucking idiot for thinking that his behaviour was dangerous or justified.Im glad that im european, we have gun waving minorities too and we dont shoot the on sight yet we have less cop death rate than usa.And guess what, im living in spain the shit hole of europe.
2first of all, it's "quid pro quo" and second of all, you used it incorrectly. shut the fuck up little kid
5When I pull my trigger finger
9the 14 year old "fuck the man" autism is strong with you too child
6lel dude, what?
6You're not Yamamoto TsunetomoI'm not regretting anything however, I am not even here to shut everyone down or derail I'm here to give my opinion like you and everyone else here is doingKeep responding Sir8I know asshole but it's less full of fragile material than the torso, you drunk5If I were a cop I'd fucking take it to a whole nother level of authoritiative sadism1Spain isn't a shithole it's got great laws just like portugal5Give me your coordinates and we'll see who shuts who up, you fucking loser of an old man wtf are you doing on a childrens site you over-confident adult child thirty-something
1see7
9He walked away suspiciouslyyou're right shoot him
Just another wonderful day being European
8This guy has it right 7
9He walked away suspiciouslyyou're right, shoot him!
2Give me your coordinates and we'll see who shuts upEnemy carepackage inbound
8Seeing as putting your hands up when an officer says to is kind of a universally known action, what the actual fuck was he expecting to have to do
it made me fucking angry , tell me why police in usa are such pieces of shit and coward faggots ? it doesnt happen in europe
6Not every cop would have done this obviously.7I don't know if most europeans could handle it here, whereas many Americans go to live where you live when they retire.We have more robust people in the US every single time4whatever ;
2I dont drink, a shot to the thigh will make you bleed out faster than a shot to the gut
2you fucking loser of an old manmfw when I'm only 16childrens sitemfw we on b
HURR DURR USE A TASER!Let's go over the problems with tasers.Range not being a problem in this case.They do work on most people, IF they connect. They are single shot, and fire two prongs, both of which must penetrate the skin, if one or both do not make it into the target because of clothing, or hard obstructions like buttons, wallets, weapons, phones, or whatever else have you, no shock is delivered and the person holding the taser is now a wonderfully open target.
3Not internally. Would you rather lose your leg or your life7This is a childrens site.
6children's pizza site maybe
6for a handgun, you'd die of bleeding, like in the video, id rather take a shot to the torso than the thigh
3/threadFinally something we can all agree on
2You dont know about our recent laws that repress people dont you?Doing a illegal concentration against a politician 6000€ and two years of jail.
2Holy fucking shit i really hope this is bait
3It's definitely mostly populated by children. /b/ is still the best board though2They're not using fucking .17 HMR or some shit it's meant to take you down but it's not meant to fuck you up. He hit him in the right spot at the wrong time3I don't give a shit about that it's not repression if you're not diagnosed as a fucking sociopath.If you even refer to it as repression, any of those laws you're talking about, you have very little wisdom if any at all, but you're probably just parroting somethingGod Bless America, the Greatest Country EVER to be allowd to Flourish on this, God's Great Green EarthAnything else is far less than satisfactory other than USA USA USA USA USA USA
0Regardless of what it sounds like, you're a fool if you think the officer is telling you to put your hands anywhere other than up in the air. It's pretty much nailed into everyones head that if you have a gun raised at you, your hands will pretty much automatically go into the air. If that doesn't happen, you're telling yourself to not do it.You can watch countless videos of random people holding guns to others and their reactions are to cover their body with their hands/arms or raise them in the air. Not put them into your pants or move them down or anything else.
2Hello David Ford. Youtube commentor.
2Man all i was saying that here in spain we have armed gangs too ,and we dont respond like that. that type if behaviour, the one in the video, dont lead to a trigger happy shooting in less that two seconds.We had terrorism here ETA, in spain, and the majority of the terrorists were captured alive.
7Half the replies itt are.No one can be that ignorant unlessA. Theyre trolling orB. Were being raided which goes back to a
6He had headphones in
7That person is either a troll or some kind of disorganized schizophrenic haha6This is not unlike the response of getting your head shot off and then your hands going into the airEither you're reacting or you're planning something. 2Why don't you carry a super-shorty, uzi pro and a fucking revolver with you wherever you goYou don't live in a little favela shit hole do you..?
9walks away suspiciously is a value judgement in itself so thats flawed from the goalso i and many others get shook when the police pull up even if i know i havent done anything so someone marching up to me with a gun would probably cause me to do some suspect shit
Could have been avoided on his part, the guy that got shot I mean. Officer could have probably just tazed him but whatever, and the cuffs didn't really seem necessary at that point..Im just saying if Im bleeding to death I wanna do it a free man, not cuffed on my face like trash.
6stop being a total faggot6replying to multiple people like this makes me think you also like sharpies in the pooper6herp derp muh intellect6kill yourself, nigger
2Doesnt matterAll that matters is he heard the commands and said nah fool
if i didnt know a side to pick and i had to by judging from the replies in this thread, id side with the cop based solely on the fact that the trolls side with dillon and logical responses side with the cop.which means that siding with dillon is so retarded its bait.
6Imagine that you get out of the street with one of your big fucking banners that say:god hates fagsinmigrants outBOOM 6000$ AND TWO YEARS OF JAIL FAGGOT.
8/b/ thread open on his laptoplel
3The cop was behind him
7not related but do you have to speak english on every site u comment on?
8he was attempting to be a "though streetcred wigger" nah fool 0:39He got Darwined pretty much I dont feel nothing for him, at least the gen-pool is a little clearer now
8Ok I don't give a shit about what happened in the video, I just love seeing American cities, they look awesome. Non muricanfag hereAlso fuck you OP.
be americanget shot
, 
Scare me /b.. Scare me good...
3
3JESUS CHRIST!
3
, 
, 
So my friend's mum made him dinner.. it's chicken, thoughts?
0looks fingerlicking good! enjoy your meal OP
Fuckin nasty picture ... i demend more !!!
Eat it
how can it be simultaneously burnt and totally raw?
Fuck his mum right in the pussy.
3That;s not raw, that's medium rare
3Cooked at too high a heat.
2medium rare chicken? That's a terrible idea, your friends mum is an idiot.
it's gross, op
02015not cooking chicken properlyYou should tell her to stick with boxed mac and cheese
08/10 would fuck
0there's nothing terrible about medium rare chicken...
Let's do this, faggots!
0Kingdom of DavidBlue Israel
VikingsCyanFinland
Ur-RussiansGoldCrimea
420skrublord nationorangenetherlands
Faggots ParadisePinkFrance
Hella-AthensRedGreece
49805Greetings! May diplomatic channels be open between our nations.
0Dubs ConfederacyGreenStockholm
Ur-Russiansrequest alliance with Hella-Athens
YlliriaDarkAlbania
Hella-AthensAgrees to alliance with Ur-Russians
Ur-Russiansalso request alliance withKingdom of David
The Useless KingdomPurpleBelgium
Anglo-Celtic UnionLight GreenGalway, Ireland
Faggots ParadiseRequest alliance with Vikings =
The Useless Kingdomrequests alliance withFaggots Paradise
Hella-Athensrequests alliance withYlliria
4Requesting allianceDubs Confederacy
1We're a bit far faggotVikings
Faggots Paradiseagrees to alliance with the motherfuckingThe Useless Kingdom
0le happy merchantsstart in israelLight green
12 Minutes.come on op. draw map.
Sorry OP is a slow cuntWill start new thread once all are taken
8Kingdom of David is already in IsraelUr-Russian speaking
8I see that light green is takenI'll take light blue thenLe Happy Merchants
The Republic of OrangeHollandOrange
6Man I'm fucking uprestartNew Mediterranea BlueItaly
4Orange and Holland already taken
3rd reich heil hitler begins i germany, capital berlin3rd reich heil hitler
5Kingdom of David is already bluewhat the fuck man. ReadUr-Russian speaking
8oh shit, forgot to pick a colour, just take on OP
76Thank you, Ur-Russian.King David speaking.
7god damn itNew Mediterranea Light BlueItaly
8Hella-AthensStill requests alliance withYlliria
4You're welcome King David.I request an alliance with your kingdom. Do you agree?
4my bad bro I didn't see that your claim was the first one, didn't actually notice it until my 3rd read through of the tread
Holy shit you faggots can't do anything right anymore.Dubs Confederacy
3Holy shit, you?0Also, Spaghetti Empire Join the gameBlackSpaghetti empireStarts in morocco
I request the OP to do a map every 10 minutes.Come on man. This is getting useless if there's no map.Ur-Russian speaking
7What about me.Dubs Confederacy
9agreed, ready for mapHella-Athens
0You're a plastic paddy aren't you?ivory coast flagamerican flagdisgusting
this is a clusterfuck and a half,and I have a sneaking suspicion that OP ditched us
OP might have fallen asleep.wtf. Not cool man.Ur-Russian
, 
, 
, 
Why does this layout not already exist amongst mainstream consoles?
steam thread beglet's roll, /b/
sorry about the picture didnt want to waste any time downloading one
thread has failed.fuckaroony.
for black mesahelp a poorfag
Begging kind anons to either buy me Wow LITERALLY 10 DOLLARS or WWE2K15? I would make sweet lovin to you 3
Begging for anything on my wishlist
Begging for any CS:GO Skin, all I have is a Ref from TF2, but I will gladly trade it for a skin
I would love to have Shovel Knight or 7 Days to dieI would literally die from happiness 
6would also pay whoever back when I get my left over fafsa money back from my college
for new vegas.Regular version is fine with me but if you're feeling generous then I would like ultimate edition.
6I'd like Serpent in the Staglands.I'll pay you back in two weeks time with an item or equal or lesser value.
Anything from this list: CS:GO skins/keys/stuffI can offer:[H]Supreme Commander 2ThiefMurdered: Soul SuspectKane & Lynch CollectionCarmageddon 1 + 2Carmageddon TDRJets'n'Guns GOLDDead BitsShadow Warrior: Special Edition Upgrade
Strip Undead and Undressed PleaseForget about me this game is for Psyber.Also I will roll for the requests of these anons in the thread. GO3146711Let there be gifts given out!
1well i dont have the money itll be a couple of months is what im saying
2Oh shit, sorry dude. Forgot to backspace the link post.
Begging for Portal
GTA VID: DuhphlatesI will trade eternal love. I promise to love you forever and ever.
9How do I play? I'm 3
0earn some fucking money you faggot
Reign Of Kings
First one to roll Trips gets a copy of Warhammer 40k Dawn of War 2.Also accepting photoshoprequests for quite a cheap exchange of Payday 2 DLC's, mostly the Western one!/id/4567921460
7bumping with pic
Reign Of Kings
7wait...I already have that game whoops. Silly me buying it off HB. Anyway I will be rolling for anyone of these dudes.595Rollin for your Wishlist.
2Next one to roll dubs gets a key for DoW from this 7 + Slevin is going an hero on cam
27Rerolling for anons here.59If this post wins. Pick an Anon and send them the game.
Roll 4 dubsID: Duhphlates
V
ID DuhphlatesGreedy basterd = me
0My computer isn't good enough to run any games I want on steam, can somebody send me an xbox live trial code? Like a 2 day code that they have laying around.johngoodman@cock.li
2Look at those trips.Thanks for replying to this post.2And no I am not going to HERO on cam. I don't have a Camera or a Gun.
I'm still greedy as fuckID: Duhphlates
GTA V
I don't know what I'm doing.ID: DoktorVitek
722Hope you deliver op.
ID: DuhphlatesAm I really the only nerd roll spamming right now?
ID: Duhphlates
i want da gta v
Fuck it, I quit48199
27Rerolling. OP is a faggot who won't deliver.2
re roll v
ANY Stat-trak UMP skin for CSGOANY AT ALLpleaseSteam ID: LoneOkami
8Rolling for this guy, since he quit and I want him to get something.
ROLLING! ID: DoktorVitek
re rollvreign of kingsark survival evolved
8Meem.
Trips get
4Fucking nigger, fuck you for actually making me post to this.
3Reroll
3Trips
Never done this before might as well. rollin for Xcom enemy unknown
vreign of kingsark survival evolvedrising world
9will role for he viddys

8Kek.Lion man is going to bust your face in.
roll.
Thread died to newfags rolling for tripsgod to deliver them games.... poor 4chan is dying
i cant roll dubsvreign of kingsark survival evolvedrising world
[H] pic related[w] offers/id/killerblue4
class="quote"MFW I rolled Trips but OP doesn't deliver because I already have the game but instead I choose someone else in my stead and its 8
vreign of kingsark survival evolvedrising worldi cant D:
Fallout 4
7Rollin for this dude.
7Rerollin for this dude.
7Rerolling rolling for this dude.
5I love you Sleven-sama! Roll for me 31
7Rerollin Rollin Rollin
7Rerollin for tripsster to win 7Make it so.
last try vreign of kingsark survival evolvedrising world
7Rerollin rollin roll
5hey sleven, could you help me with something?
7No Last tries for me I roll until OP finally delivers to an anon.Slevens honor. That or the thread 404s. whichever.
I have keys left from my last purchase, no one wants it, so I post them here.Warhammer® 40,000: Dawn of War IIAH2YG-AFLWY-GH76EWarhammer® 40,000: Dawn of War® - Game of the Year EditionZGR63-LFWZP-5HFX9Company of Heroes™ Complete EditionQYVDE-XV538-EA9LWHave fun
7anon delivers
5Depends are you going to participate in my challenge later on?If so then I might be able to help you. If not then sorry bud my schedule is packed to helping anon's get their games like 1
Any kind anon want to buy me fallout 3, its my birthday and only my mom has congratulated me
for ARK: Survival.
2it's not to get a game. i believe i am on your friends list, can i message you there?
7Rollin to the eventual delivery of Winrar.
3i don't suppose you have 40k space marine or warhammer II retribution to give away?
6Yea sure. Go ahead and message me. 7Rerolling this guy for his hopes and dreams.
Begging for anything steamcommunity.com/id/blockheadind
0take anything really
1rollin for this guy
Begging for skull girls/id/nuclearpowerguyyou get friend with shitty English skillsinb4 free now
Have:Civ 3, 4 and 5, complete editions with all DLCWant:Tie fighter bundle
BeggingTF2 Medic Items/CosmeticsSteam Cards/BackgroundsKerbal Space ProgramSurgeon Simulatorsteamcommunity.com/profiles/76561198055094548
1never give up
roll for csgo skins
7Rerollin for this guy to get trips.
8I have tie fighter. Wanna exchange?
we got this1
4ok, sent the message
7Rerolling to infinity. Trips are easy to get. Always.
6Rolling for repeating numbers at the end
6Is it the bundle which includes xwing vs tiefighter?If not, no thanks.
roll1
6Maybe if repeating numbers at the end I can get a CS:GO Skin, or anything?
1Nope, used them for myself.
7RerollinAlso check this shit out. Best get I ever received.1
6I was one off from trips. Maybe I can at least get some dubs?Rolling this many times
7Rerollin for the Good shit
6Okay this isn't about getting stuff on steam now, this is about getting dubs
7I'll roll on this
7Rerolling
6I am going to get some kind of neat number eventually.inb4 trips
7roll4
Steamkeys@sapo.ptRollin
7never giving up
5so if you roll dubs, you don't want the games/items?
1Reroll
7Rerolling Slev
7Roll
6I won't give up, Rolling for random things, hopefully some crap CS:GO skins
72/347fuck
6Welp now I have to give up, I have PT. Please give me your spare things in offers while I am gone kind anons
607Dubs7
748Shit man, I didn't even want dubs, yet here they are.
1Rock n rerollin
57Rerollin 
1Rick rerollin
73/3 won't roll any morejust begging4
5Rolllerdoller
7ME YOUR LOVE
Sorry for begging. I need Lucius, on its highest sale nowThanksSincerely,
7for Anon.,
1Rollin.Even if I win, will happily give my civ keys to whoever donatoranon chooses
1Rolling for slevin.
steamcommunity.com/profiles/76561198057944788begging for hatred or some dota 2 items
7it to this man here. 7OP7
1Lucky number slevin
4fuck me
Begging for CS:GO. 15$. Jesus.
for New Vegas or Fallout 3, gotta prep for 4
7Slevin Rerollin for this dude.
4Near quads.7
1Are you a girl who never had a dick before?
2Please, any kind anon, theyre cheap skins
4555's can free the games for 7
87Rerolling til deliverence.
7rerolling
days to die pls
7Rerolling for trips.
7no
7Rerolling like a champ.
1Rerolling bb please
7Rerolling now.
7Close but continue on the quest of winning.Today will be no losers.
7RerollingGotta time it just right.INB4 OP doesn't deliver.
7Rerolling hard core for those trips.
, 
/b i need your helpbeen dating a girl for going on 6 months now, its long distance. Lately shes had been acting distant and would barely talk to me. Finally one day we're talking about we get into an argument, in a fit of frustration thats been building up, i tell her i dont want to talk to her for the rest of the day. Late that night she messages me telling me how shes sorry but shes been feeling really bitter and wants to shut everyone out. She told me shes not even sure if she loves me anymore and it hurts i cant make her happy anymore thats hard to do when shes been pushing me away. Said she doesnt know how to love someone else when she doesnt even love herself. I went into full break down and wrote her like a 3 paragraph reply of everything ive been thinking about and tried my best to help solve any problems. She tells me that she cant open up to me, she cant even open up to any of her friends or family. Said only she can help herself right now and needed a few days alone.This was last saturday, she still has yet to send me any kind of messaging, I see her pop on and off of skype but thats it. Maybe im worrying too much but shes gone back to cutting and i do love her. My anxiety grows each passing day and i dont know what i should do.Help me out /b please, whats the best thing i could do? Should i message her? Should i just continue to wait? What would i say? Of course, this is just a quick overview of everything, if theres an important detail im missing just ask
0whats her skype?
How about you go and talk to her in person you fucking pussy.And if it's one of those "long distance relationships" then just end it because she's fucking someone else anyway.
42Im not giving out her skype.And yes its long distance, and no, despite what you or anyone else might think, i trust she wouldnt do that.
0u got like a private something? where u can mesege me her skype with no one to see? Like facebook
7Absolutely not. Im looking for advice, not someone to talk to her.
6are u seriously asking help on /b/ ? on fucking /b/ ?/b/ man....
1Dont you think if i had somewhere else to ask i would have?
0She will be back once she is done with the black cock, just wait it out anon
i never understood how someone can be in a long distance relationship. what does it feel like not being able to fuck your woman multiple times a day, every single day? then you have to worry about her sleeping around because women these days are whores and need to get their filling. must be a beta thing.
5IDK what u should do but this is what I would do. I would already dump her. no kidding. if a girl does this kind of shit fuck her. U have approx 90 years of life on this earth why wate them on such shit. I would dump her as sooon as I could really. Also if u do that look how she will act. If she wont object it mwans u done the right thing. If she will start calling you back and saying she is sorry and stuff give her another chance since girls sometimes act like that. ou have to cut the shit straight man.
1Because its better then forming a relationship on a physical aspect. I dont need to have sex with her all the time, and i actually have faith in her unlike most you asshats.
3This niggas right. Listen to him OP.
3I couldnt do that. Not only would i be intentionally hurting myself doing so, id break my promise of always being there for her. I dont break promises. If she did leave for good, of course that wouldnt be my fault but id never forgive myself for breaking up with her. I love her and i want to keep her
every day some bitch faggot who can't control his a: bitch b: emotions c: both somes on /b/ to cry about his girl hurting his feels. why don't you retarded autists with girl problems just find a new one? It's not hard and she will put out like a rabbit for the first few months at least. once she feels comfortable is when the problems start. you then boot that one to the curb and find another.
0It's long distance Stopped reading. You're in a relationship with a computer monitor. Find an actual woman and stop being a cuck.
7People are fickle, and women nowadays are whores. I'm in the same position as you man, but we've been together for about 3 years now. It sucks because I'm in the Army atm, and I want to get out and start a life with her. I get it. LDR sucks dick.But if she wants space, give it to her, i mean really give it to her. Cut her the fuck off!If she's really bout it, she'll turn around. if not, move the fuck on.
0Lol long distance relationships
kill yourself
1I couldnt do that. Not only would i be intentionally hurting myself doing so, id break my promise of always being there for her. I dont break promises. after reading this line I understood that you are a total cuck. I really wanted to help you but now just fucking embrace that youare a waste of human resource. Sorry I am the one who had to tell you that
2You dont seem to understand, its not just about having the relationship. Its that im legitimately worried about her as well. I want to work things out. Jumping from girl to girl would just make me feel like a shallow prick.
top kek
2topkek
7Ahahahahhahahahaha
0Have you ever met her, or is she just a pen pal?
0long distanceshes not even sure if she loves me anymoreshe doesnt even love herselfI went into full break down and [opened up to her in 3 paragraphs]she has yet to send me any kind of messagingdudedo you need a big red flashing sign saying it was a bad idea to begin with?I was literally in the exact same spotit ain't gonna work dude, it was a retarded idea to begin withthe second you show any kind of weakness to retarded womyn like this one, that's it, you're useless; they don't need a boyfriend or a friend, they need a father/father-figure/someone-to-take-care-of-them-regardless-of-anythingthey are broken people and it's not your job to fix themonce you do, you're again useless. it will only last for as long as you are providing something for herjust stahp and focus on finding an actual gfsrsly
0Its whatever, i dont expect much from /bjust wanted simple advice, knowing good and well the people that browse this place
1You don't have to break your promise. Just don't be the one to contact her first. If she doesn't hit you back in like....a week and a half. Break up with her. Ain't no bitch ever take more than 7 days to think about her relationship
0nah nigga you want someone that'll tell you it's gonna be a'ightit ain't unless you cut all contact with her, since she's already done so
Sounds tough. I've had a long distance relationship in the past and honestly it gets to that point. It ended up me breaking up with her. The way i see it is to wait til you're of age and of money too see that person.Sounds fairly similar to what happened in my situation. Maybe she's considering breaking up with you. You should talk to her. Communication is key in these situations.
0DUDE WAHT FUCKING ADVICE IF U ACT STUPID AS FUCK?u know what I wanted to type all the stuff that is wrong with you but fuck it not wasting my life on this shit. go fucking die retard
0And while you are whining on 4chinz, your "girlfriend" is taking BBC in the ass and mouth and vagoo and earholes
Long distance relationships aren't real relationships. You don't love someone you chat with on the computer.
9I went through a on/off relationship that wasnt long distance, lasted over a year, and was complete shit.I went through that "oh as long as someone else tells me things will work out itll be okay" shit. Thats not what im looking for here
8then you feel like a shallow prick who gets his dick we often. i used to feel the same way, once you get fucked over a few times you will harden up. until then there is no helping you, best of luck, you will need it to get off the cuck train.
OP is a cuckfag. back to cutting?Why would you get with a cutter. Don't stick your dick in self-mutilating crazy
0I went through a on/off relationship that wasnt long distance, lasted over a year, and was complete shitfucking stop doing this to yourself anon jesus fuck
8Cant help it, i get attached and then its i hard to let go. Not sure if thats a good or bad thing but its how its been.
9That's a beta thing
0Don't listen to these people OP. I'll help you out. You just need to talk with her redheaded as bro. Cmon Zach I believe in you
9check'd, anon have you considered just getting a waifu instead? it's so much less work
37699Basically getting the same advice of just holding it letting it go, and maybe seeing if she comes back. If thats really the best advice
9I learned it in the hardway, told my feelings to the bitch, bitch is now dating some faggot, i will never talk about feelings with bitches, you have to be an asshole
9you're getting attached because you feel useful and they're appreciative of you while you're usefulyou're literally being a happy toolthat's not how relationships should be, and it's not how a steady, normal, long-term relationship will be. things should go both-waysyou can be a great person without having to be useful to random insecure bitches that have daddy issues
5No, you don't. There is a difference between being a faggot beta and talking about feelings. That muscular guy who's banging the girl you like? He's nice and funny and has a soft side. You are just a judgmental ass.
7Actually im the muscular, he is some midget skelleton
0Sure he is, fatty.
2Theres a part of me that says this is completely 100% right, and i shouldnt have to be the one to make sure shes always happy. But at the same time id feel like a complete and udder worthless human being if i left her for that reason. She has problems and even the one person who loves her doesnt want to help? damn.. Feelsbadman.jpeg
She's fucking someone else that can actually be an alpha and cum inside her warm tight pussy!! Get fucking real you idiot! This is my fuckin advice! I've been through your shoes and know how it feel you fucker!! Long distance always ends up in bad terms she is fucking somebody! If you don't take my fucking advice like you should and move on find another chick in person! If not then I'm going to her place have her Skype your shitty beta life and fuck the living alpha out of her and cum inside her! Stop being a big pussy and find a new chick fucking pleb
My best friend tried to kill herself last night, she still might die because we never contacted the authorities. I want to die too now. I think i might
, 
, 
, 
, 
Sauce?
bump
GOTO /r/
8it's just boring oc that was spammed/forced by the creator a LOT
6I've seen a full video on a porn site. teamSkeet or something
, 
Roll if you dare /b/
rolling for this faggot
8IB'SD HABBADING
8FUUUUUCCKKK
*fires
8rollerino
, 
I'm playing Pokemon sapphire and I want /b/ to decide my team dubs decides a Pokemon.
Wurmple named DickBug
0volbeat
Anyone got more of this fag?
Make me cringe /b/
6
Bump for cringe
prepare yourself
, 
Yuna's the real plot-relevant protagonist for the most part. FF10 would be vastly improved by Tidus being a less insufferable blight on the face of writing and voice acting.
2Eh, what's done is done.4Agreed, still pretty good.3No, better, PS2 emulator. It's got FF XII International: Zodiac Job System. Much better than the original.I'm unsure what the equivalent of high school is here. I'm tempted to guess no though. 9 years of schooling is what I got, minus the haphazard college studies.5yea nay
2Emulator's fine too. I cbf'd emulating anything these days. Too many new games to bitch about.Haphazard college studies is still pretty close.
2yuna suffers from the same problem as star wars 1's characters."Describe their personality, short and concise""...uhh""describe han solo/luke/leia/green elmo/""arrogant, rogue, inexperienced, good heart, hope, glue that holds stuff together, wise"
0cbf'd?Though I'm not sure exactly if my idea of a college is the same as yours.
9Well better writing would obviously make the game better too. The point is that FF10, on top of having ridiculously poor writing, isn't structured logically.
5right.
0can't be fuckedand anyway most students who take the class I'm taking it's a requirement don't do any of the reading anyway since it's too hard for them5it's a pretty bad video game
2I don't disagree.I'm just saying that jecht, auron and gayboy had a semblance of personality and it would have been a much better game if they followed them, even if they ultimately failed.
5I feel like firstly writing was probably worse because of the JAP translations. Secondly its those cheesy moments that kind of warm your heart cause you can laugh at how lame it is. Really gave me a huge connection to the characters. Tidus was the glue that kept the group together.
2Oh.Ok.
recently replayed it and its way better than i remembered.my main problem with FF games always was that you have all these utility spells, but what you end up doing in every single one is just spamming ultimates.not in this one though, fights are really fun and almost every boss has a weakness against spell X.
6
5For some reason it took me a minute to figure out who you meant by gayboy. Yes.6No, the translation job was fine. You're thinking of FF7, but the terrible translation there actually made the game funny. FF10 is just badly written.7SAY MORE THINGS THAN THAT
metal gear solid and final fantasy 7 were my favorite games as a kid. MGS2 and FFX came out at about the same time, and in both, the badass main character was replaced with a whiny, immature douche.I was not pleased.
6But I really have nothing to say at this moment. At least not about your previous post. All in all you've done a less than stellar job of being interesting today.4MGS2 wasn't really very good. It wasn't bad, but I liked MGS1 and 4 much more. MGS3 was ok, though I hated all of the Cobras.
6are braska and that blue haired faggot politician guy different people?perhaps I am misremembering.
4FF7 isn't very good either but it was so many kids' first experience with 3d grafix and fmvs and huge fucking narratives and cheap feels that it stuck.5No, I have been unbelievably interesting. We could've had a whole fucking conversation about the nature of violence but you dropped the ball.
9Seymour?0I guess I'm just not very violent.
3right.
9You know off the top of my head I couldn't tell you. It's braska that traveled with jecht and auron though.
5I'm saving that.
2Ok.3You don't need to BE violent to discuss it! That would fucking...invalidate Gandhi. And Jesus.
3gandhi wasn't all that good.neither was mother teresa for that matter.
9The problem with FF in terms of combat is that it's the easiest fucking JRPG series of all time and you can mostly just normal attack/heal your way through them without even having to do major grinding. The original versions of 1-6 had an ok level of challenge and required some strategy, but the remakes of 1-6 and 7 and beyond are too damn easy.FF may be considered one of the top, premier JRPG series, but in terms of actual quality, it's middle-of-the-road. It's an entry level series that people should move on from once they start finding better genre entries.
3But I'm writing a scenario/campaign haven't decided which for my friend's character in Warhammer RPG. I don't feel like getting immersed in conversation about subjects that are only interesting in passing at this moment.
2Not remotely the point.6Then it's hardly MY fault that you're not interested, you're voluntarily dividing your attention and should probably just leave.1There's not a whole lot of upward mobility with jrpgs, it's not that good a genre to begin with.
FFX would have been great if it had been a story about political and religious corruption with Seymour as the main villain like it should have been.Sin and Yu Yevon were just stupid.
2Ok.
9Goodbye.7Final fantasy bites off more narrative concepts than it can chew with almost every entry and as a result does none of them well.
9It was more an acknowledgement than an agreement. I'm not going anywhere.
8So you're literally just here to be here, with no aims at contributing?
9Agreed. imo VIII was one of the worst offenders in that regard and is also simply one of the worst FF games in general. Everything about it is dire. The plot, dialogue, characterization, just bad writing all the way down the line. The only other game in the main series that is as bad is XIII.
3My fucking nigga. VIII is an absolute abomination. Probably as a matter of course, its immediate successor dialed back the sheer absurdity...at least a little bit, there isn't a final fantasy that isn't absurd really but IX is one of the more grounded examples. But god, VIII is terrible.
0Not really. I'm looking for opportunities to join in on the conversation, but I'm not forcing myself to partake if the topic is not something I want to discuss. Final Fantasy is generally one of those topics.
not saying i like tidus, but i dont get why he's always the first ff main targeted when worse ones like vaan and squall exist or worthless nothing characters like terra and lightning
VIII is the best ff get fucked nerds whatever
9Because of the laughing scene.And actually, Squall is fine. He's in a terrible game but he's mostly just quiet, which is boring but not as offensively godawful as vaan/tidus.5I started with violence which is relevant universally and you were just like 'eh whatever' since you didn't actually want to work your atrophying brain, you just want to make small talk with like minded faggots.
Alright badger explain this.
7It's an eternal struggle between going through some effort to care and have fun and just letting my brain rot. It shouldn't be a difficult choice, but for some reason it is.
8Well if it helps whenever you choose option 2 and I'm around I will yell at you.
8I'm shocked and appalled.2I need some yells right now.
Shit, I need to listen to some Liszt.
Ah, that really hits the spot... I'm feeling much more motivated already.
online petition to revoke bruce jenners gold medalbullshit news will probably publicize it like it's real and ask legitimate people what they think on twitter.
9It doesn't matter. Realistically speaking, except Cecil, every FF main sucks. And Cecil still isn't much of a character. When Celes takes over in the second half of FFVI, she's pretty much the only genuinely good FF main. The only other possible answer was Noel from XIII-2, since he's pretty much the exact opposite of Tidus. His life was shitty and depressing, but he isn't a little bitch about it.7Thanks for reminding me of the laughing scene.On the topic of Vaan, he at least had the decency to mostly step aside when Baasch and Ashe the real mains show up.
4You are, by your choices, virtue's very antithesis. If Satan's corruption has a conduit into our world it's through the inaction, the idleness, the thoughtlessness and indeed the sheer stupidity of you and everyone like you. 6Well technically if he was a woman all along, he competed in the wrong league and thus should be retroactively disqualified.
1Wow, that kinda hurt, but also it helps.
2I wouldn't say Cecil's the only decent protagonist. Bartz is pretty alright too, Firion is...as irrelevant as Cecil.
1b8
4See, I made an argument for removing his gold medal. So it's legitimate news. I seriously doubt you have even an inkling of a solid position here - and this should be a fucking freebie, I don't believe the point I just made.5That's what I'm here for babycakes.
6the point is that 4chan is just doing it for publicity and the news will treat it at face value.
6I'll be right back, I'm gonna go take a leak, cry a little, then have a smoke and come back. In the meantime, listen to this.
1Stuff done for publicity is, in fact, news. Have you ever heard of terrorism?2Gladly, have fun.
1The problem is that even if there is some technical legitimacy to it, we all know that the people behind the petition don't care about the Olympics. They're just people who are assblasted over trans people becoming accepted in modern society.But the smarter members of their ilk are able to spin it to seem like they do oh so care about the sanctity of competitive sports. And many of the dumber ones are masters ofcognitive dissonance.
5insufferable line of reasoning.
8Does motivation matter so much if the argument they're making is valid? I personally don't think the argument is remotely valid since olympic segregation and indeed all gender segregated sports is determined by physically observable features that construe an average disparity in men and women's physical abilities. In that vein, a transwoman should never be permitted to compete in a female sporting event but should be allowed in a male equivalent - but I suspect that left leaning identity ideologues wouldn't agree with that any more than they'd want Jenner's gold medal revoked. You can't have it both ways.0Katia, you brought up an issue and you're exerting less effort in discussing it than I do to insult dumpers.
bitches
9my point is that making a non-issue into an issue is dumb and the media is dumb for doing it.that is all, I did not bring it up to argue semantics.
0Corrupt cock-craving cum crazies, that's us.6I'm not arguing semantics, and I don't believe this is a non-issue. The ramifications of alternative gender identity for traditionally gender segregated aspects of society like sport are very real.
1Bartz is ok, yes. Nothing special, nothing wrong with him either. Cecil I wouldn't say is irrelevant, since his connection to Golbez is a major plot point. Even if you want to count his as being as pointless as Firion, Cecil is still at least moderately cool/interesting. Firion is just... Firion. Has anyone in history ever given a shit about Firion? No one I've ever met.I'd probably rank it like this:Ok:CecilNoelCelesAsheInoffensive:BartzBaaschCloudYuna FFXWorthless:FirionLightningTerraZidaneCrap:SquallVaanTidusYuna FFX-2
, 
, 
Dubs names my Asiimov
i need to get a life
What Would Hitler Do?
Bath with dad
failure at life
3Steel beams can melt sometimes
childporn.gov
crappy m4a1s
DongBonger.
I cant get laid
Check em' nig nogs
3OPISAFAGGOT
I'm dumb as shit
The Nigger-Lyncher
sold my virginity for this
3
3Child Porn
3faggotor
Lanza's Longrifle
4 chan named this gun
This is StatTrak.
3Jackinov
3neger jaeger
3I'm a loser
Rarest Pepe
3The Quick Fix
Immigrant inspector
1reroll
3Cant believe I paid 4 this
Nigger shooter v.2.0
Hyber peast
7Well shit...
My Favorite Dildo
7enjoy your new rifle OP!
1Op here that name is gay
3DSFARGEG
7Fuckin Winrar
i love traps
Student Blaster
hold on selling some skins to get a nameplate
, 
, 
What's the most fucked up drug out there? Cant be Krokodil or jenkem...
2what do you mean by fucked up ? as in fucking up the users health, the users mind or fucked up way to produce ?
Benadryl shit brings you to hell and back
2Krokodil isn't bad because of the "drug" aspect; it's just a sloppy way to approximate heroin, and results in impurities that fuck you up when injected intravenously. You could just shoot up iodine and red phosphorus solution, and you'd get similar negative results.
alcohol, because there is tremendous pressure to use it just to be a "real adult", and it ruins a shitload of lives and families. I'm an alcoholic, my dad was, my aunt is, my grandmother was, my uncles are, my brothers are, the only teetotaler in my family is my mom. My aunt is about to go to prison for years thanks to getting her fifth DUI in a year. I honestly don't know how she has not gone to jail before this point. I guess they buy her whiny "it's because of my husband" act. And yet, even if you have such a family predisposition, the vast majority of the world will call you a faggot if you try to even cut down on drinking, let alone quit outright.
2Datura stramonium is pretty bad, but it's not surprising because it's basically a high dose of atropine. It can save you in the event of a nerve gas attack, but it's no so good in normal circumstances...
2jew ash
Marijuana. It ruined my fucking life!
8holy shit thisi've tried every hallucinogen i've been able to get my hands on, and this is the only one i'll never touch againit was a neverending nightmare. i cried with relief as i was coming down
8Nigga u gay
2Hells bells
Marijuana is the worst.
4tried every hallucinogen i've ever been able to get my hands onAnd yet you still are an unenlightened stoner.
Definitely the weeds, I took one once and now I don't have any feet
0yeah, i was just trying them to see what all the fuss was about. not really interested in making drugs my lifestyle
2Bromo dragonfly. Intense nightmarish hell-trip that lasts for 3 days striaght.
DMT.Showed me the heart of the universe.Now I see the world for how it really is.Kinda wished I had remained ignorant.Am planning to move to Alaska soon.
3Cool.Another user of a psychedelic becomes narcissistic.Protip: You just tripped balls, and were introduced to a altered state of consciousness. You don't understand yourself or the universe anymore than most plebs.
3Also, it isn't fucked up.It's relatively safe.
1So how was Benadryl? In detail?
0Lies.I saw the very makeup of the universe.What is beyond the atoms etc...You are the one who is unenlightened.I am also a humble man and I just want to get away from this chaotic, unbalanced, evil and immoral world.9Safe?Physically perhaps.So is LSD.However those drugs can completely alter you mentally.So they are if anything the most dangerous of drugs.
PV8? MDPV?
any serious dose of a pharmaceutical grade barbiturate will fuck you up beyond any recognition, worse than any bullshit hot shot of opium or meth or crack. i shot thiopentone once, doseage range about 5ccs short of a medical induced coma. never been so fucked. fuck psychedelics, bringing yourself to the absolute precipice of death and coming back - that's a helluva drug.
MDPV AKA bath salts
Bumpin'
8pretty bad. i was totally unable to tell what was real and what wasn't, which i'd never experienced before or since. normally you can sorta reason your way out of things, or at least know you're riding the wave, but not this timei took it when i was in high school and living with my parents, but i was home alone at the time. throughout the night one or both of my parents would come into my room with an explanation of why they were back, and would talk to me for some time and then suddenly disappear. this happened several times, but it was so lifelike i didn't see it coming.there was a lot of shadow people in the corners of my vision, and periodically i would hear what sounded like a dozen people come hurtling down my hallway and pound on my door screaming. every time i would go to listen to music on my laptop, spiders would start to crawl out of the screen and start crawling up my armseverything i did to try and distract myself had its own unique horrors. it was just 12 hours of uncomfortable, horrible anxiety and fear
Also - summerfags have no idea about drugs. Poor kids, you know nothing.
9I'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt in assuming you're trolling, and not retarded.You just trip on psychedelics. It can even cure anxiety, depression, and addiction if used under psychedelic therapy, but believing that you now understand something divine is a mystic, absurd, and uneducated guess.Source: Done DMT many times.Letting it make you narcissistic means you are gullible.
3that's really well-written
29mdpv is some boring rc for people who can't get real amphetamine.
1i've had a lot of time to think about it. this was about 13 years ago, but i remember it pretty vividly
0Amen. I fucking hate when people act like they understand quantum physics because they tripped on like one tab of acid. Maybe if you stopped being a self righteous faggot and a pseudo intellectual for three and a half minutes you would actually research the shit and realize that it's not a fucking key to the universe
9I've tripped at least 15 times and this fuckin "BECOME A NEW PERSON YOU WILL NEVAR BBTHE SAME" shit like never even remotely occured. I've never met anyone who said tripping "changed their life" kek take it to /x/ fuckboy
9When some people enter a different mind-state that makes them question reality, they tend to start asking a lot of other questions about the world too. If they're unfamiliar with existentialism or don't have anyone to talk it through with, they'll probably reach some conclusions they'd rather wish they didn't. Typically these types of people having not experienced this kind of thinking before will probably be pretty stupid in other areas too, so rather than rationalise their experience or think about things clearly they'll put it into the "mystical" category and anyone who doesn't agree with them must therefore be an idiot who cannot "see what they can see". For some, acid will open their minds and let them experience a whole different kind of thinking, leading them to some wonderful thoughts and believes. As you said because of this it can cure depression, anxiety ect. But for others it can send them into madness, where they believe they are the only one who knows some kind of "truth".
Scopolamine
since it seems that there are some experienced psychedelic users here, does anyone know how the 5 or 6 different lsd derivates there are right now compare to real lsd ? you can only find some info on al-lad online but everything there is contradicting like some say it's like lsd but more visual, some say it's more mental, blabla like everyone is just trying to hard to find differences
0You're a retard.LSD and similar drugs can completely change who you are almost down to the core.Countless people have had their lives badly damaged or even ruined by drugs like that.Obviously many trip and are fine after or even are better off but a good percentage get fucked.Psychedelics are like playing with fire especially the stronger ones.Its a dangerous game you play when you take them.Quit shilling your propoganda.
8they only have those effects on people who are mentally unstable or have some mental damages anywayand probably don't know about it yet
4I don't agree with that and either way it doesn't matter because most people don't know about that shit before hand.I have seen more then one mentally stable, happy & confident people get turned into autists temporarily or longterm after bad LSD trips.
8This is probably the only answer in this thread that even approximates truth.
9Well, okay, datura is pretty fucking bad too. Go read some stories on Erowid, they are gripping in the literal sense of the word.
4One summer when I was a teen I fucked around with dph a couple times was really bored and stupid. Highest dose I ever did was a gram. I don't know why but I had a weird fascination for the high. Something about being plunged in that nightmarish delirium was interesting I guess. The overwhelming heaviness, the sinister feels, talking to people who weren't there. I actually enjoyed despite the extremely uncomfortable body load. Never fucked with it again after that summer though.
Caffeine
8LSD and similar drugs can completely change who you are almost down to the core.Yes and usually for the better.
8Underrated post
8Psychedelics are like playing with fire especially the stronger ones.If you burn away a dying forest, a new one will rise from the ashes.Its a dangerous game you play when you take them.Life itself is a dangerous game, yet we are all playing.
4I don't buy into the new age hippie bullshit of "acid will make you see the meaning of life mann" but it us true that a heavy dose of psychedelics can impact a person's personality.
3THIS IS NOW A BAD TRIP THREAD!
9If you burn away a dying forest, a new one will rise from the ashes.Yes but if the forest you had was a good forest and one that took you along time to build then burning it down might not be the best choice.It can also be too much for the mind to handle.I miss my old forest.The one I painstakingly built through trials and tribulations over many years.Now it is gone and I am nothing...
9what a stupid series of statements
3Now it is gone and I am nothing...well, what happened ?
8psychedelics are like playing with fireThat's just media hype anon. Stuff like that only happens to retards that take ridiculously high doses. If you take a regular/moderate dose like you're supposed to you just have a really fun time with interesting introspection.
9I did drug and now I understand everythingTeens aren't allowed on this board
3What you're referring to as "new age hippie bullshit" is a cultural stereotype. One we tend to react to with rejection, I might add; especially when discussing personal artifacts that otherwise could be interpreted as cues of belonging to that stereotype.We don't want to look like hippies, so when we talk about LSD, we need to explicitly state that we don't believe it actually does anything psychologically beneficial to us.There is no free lunch – everything comes at a price. Ours seems to be ubiquitous ignorance.
1Agreed. Don't get me wrong acid is a godly drug but it doesn't make you se the meaning of the universe or anything like that.
3doing psychedlics on a regular basisWay to fuck yer brein m8
Why cant it be jenkem?It is the worstA friend of mine died of jenkem overdose few years backHis parents found a crazy amount of jenkem brewing in his closet the mothefucker was dealing jenkem to kids, trading it for sex and who knows whatMostFuckedUp Shit EverJenkem, not even once pls
8There's a difference between thinking acid is a good drug and some psychological benefits and thinking that it unlocks the absolute truth in the universe. I love acid but I hate the holier than thou pretentious bullshit I hear from "enlightened" psychonauts.
6No, but it does give you a greatly increased capability of analyzing and understanding the universe.It is you who needs to make sense of the universe, and in that, drugs are simply a means to an end.
8As a current alcoholic I'm two months sober and I still feel withdrawal symptoms. The fact that I can go buy spirits legally pisses me off because of the lives it ruins. I used to drink a pint a night of vodka for years. It doesn't matter who you are , alcohol can make you an addict.
2unlocks the absolute truth in the universeThese people are called schizophrenics. They will tell you the same things even without drugs.
9Who ever said I take acid on a regular basis? I'm lucky if I can get acid once a year. And besides acid is a special occasion treat kind of thing.
5took LSDhad a really bad tripat one point everything disappeared including myself and my mind and there just a bright white lightfelt like I lost my personality completelylost my confidence and everything else goodbecame a complete autist for awhileslowly recovered after many, many monthsstill don't feel like half the man I used to bedepressed & suicidal most of the time3More bullshit.I never took more then 1 tab at a time.Usually took half a tab.Shit is powerful.
7K
7they don't understand anything, it's just in their fucked up minds. it's like 5 says
2Datura Shit is boss level
5Well it affects everyone differently anon. I' m not saying that one dose can't be a powerful experience, but it won't give a shit your pants, ego death, questioning your experience high.
5sorry, but you have to be mentally fucked up beforehand to believe anything you see while on hallucinogens is real or has any effect on you.
7You are unenlightened so obviously you can't understand.I understand the universe in ways you couldn't dream of.Was not only the drug which allowed me these privileges but my own spirit and mind which are unique and above most humans.It isn't all easy either. With power comes responsibility.
I took too much welbutrin on accident a month ago. I threw up, hallucinated and then had a seizure. I suck
2Love
Scopolamine known as Devils Breath
2I am not retarded.I was incredibly confident & great socially before the bad trip.I know the feelings I feel are not logical and make no sense but I still fucking feel them.
3you probably just realized that you were just playing the confident guy or something like that. that's different since it's not who you really are, but just who you were pretending to be.
0You can't fake confidence and even if you could I would much rather be able to fake it and believe it then be some loser autist or some submissive gay boy I am now.
9Its the Jews who are behind it all
3What is the meaning of life?
Most likely ricinCan anyone post how to make it?
3you even sound like a schizophrenic...since you understand the universe, tell us how a rectangular galaxy can exist, or what exactly dark matter is
, 
, 
coke comedown from hell please helpi dnt smoke weed and i have no opiates or benzos
Same solution as to literally every problem in the world: have a wank
8wont help
Were you the faggot from last night thinking he was going to overdose on 1 gram over the course of 8 hours?
3man up and just get through it. coke is great but there are negatives such as the comedown you are experiencing.stop doing cokestop being a bitchstart smoking weedpick one
1yeah lmao.. i ended up sleeping actually surprisingly cause its clean stuff woke up and started doing lines again...
9Well i used to be in a similar situation. Nip the addiction in the but and just flush what you have, and start smoking weed. Yes you'll end up buying more, but if you're anything like me, the fear of ending up in a hospital will be stronger than the pull of coke. You fucking got this
9having fun on your summer break already i see.
7When i quit, I kept buying more but then I'd end up flushing most of what I bought and realizing how much money and health I'm sacrificing
Baby please don't cry
Quit being a loser.Scarface never "ran out of coke" did he?Start being a bawse and make some fucking paper loser then sniff all the coke you want.I make 200k a month bitch.
Take an extremely cold shower and afterwards lay down in bed and focus on breathing. Try not to focus on the fact that your heart skips a beat every now and the.
6if you're actually being serious may I ask what you do? And thats actually what im working on right now.
3cut yourself
6Im a gril btw
8Giggilo & drug producer/seller.
7funny
2Not a joke.I am basically a mix of Scarface & Walter White.
2 You have a methlab in your moms basement?
3i dnt smoke weedSTART NOW
2where do you live and do you need a crew?
3Get some heron man it's the only way or stop doing drugs could help
7am a grilam a gigolopick one
Get drunk. Alcohol always kills coke comedowns for me.
0
3I don't produce Meth.1NYC. Maybe. Do you know how to pick locks?0I am not a gril.
7yeah.. try that sweet heron
862
6I am not 022
9k
3OP the only way to ease the comedown is to keep doing lines you pussybitch. This way your body is forced to shutdown and you'll have no say so. I used to go through 30grams of straight drop roughly throughout the week. One line would last 5hours and I could never do two back to back otherwise incoming heart attack. Fuck even keysized bumps after the first initial dooker were rough. They'd extend the feeling by another 2hours. I thought I was going to die every time I'd go down. Body will eventually tell you no more, and when this occurs you will feel extremely tired no matter how much you do.
8cars and apartments are usually pretty fucking easy to break into, but I couldn't do much with a real lock.How do you advertise your gigolo business?
what the fuck do you want us to do OP?either drink it away, smoke it away, or just fucking man up and accept that there cannot be a high without an adjoining low.
3Dont binge on coke, just do a little bit of it here and there, while you binge on other drugs like lsd and alcohol
4there cannot be a high without an adjoining lowwtf?there is no comedown from smoking weednot that I'd ever find out420 BLAZE IT
8Choosing alcohol over soft. Are you fucking retarded or just a little pussybitch?
7literally every other recreational drug has a comedown.
8An lsd binge is retarded
8binge on lsdkek, not how that worksFYI, lsd is only active in your system for about a minute or so, and most of it is filtered out by the liver. The resulting hours of effects are all cascading neurological reactions and all the LSD molecules have broken up into harmless pieces by then.The time between when doses of LSD are effective is a neurological imperative, so it's kind of impossible to "binge"
08new teenage summer fags
9You have literally never taken more than a tiny drop of lsd in your life
3
The fuck man, just drink some water. I've done coc a few times now and never had a problem coming down.
82015using cokenot bingingwhy use it in the first place you cumguzzling cuntbag.
2I've tripped dozens of times on LSD, LSA and shrooms.I've also taken biology classes from the most educated hippies on the planetUC Berkeley
Does your dick work yet? Eat a bunch of benadryl and then fap until you sleep.
9This guy knows what's up
3Welcome drug newbie - have a couple of fucking beers.
3summerfagall of my keks Sorry your pisspoor self can't afford straight drop to be doing it daily. Also LSD is fucking child's play. Did that shit when I was a 16year old. Not something you would do at work, which is why you're a fucking child if you still do that shitty drug.
3shitty drugdon't be mad just cause you're poor and you had to grow upLSD is fucking amazing and you're a goddamned retard if you don't realize it
implying anyone actually gets LSD anymore and not bullshit 2c/e/i/whatever research chem bullshit
2Are you fucking retarded or just can't comprehend simple math?Cocaine goes for 5-10X more than LSD is. Depending on the area. mad cause you had to grow upThanks for proving the point of which you're a fucking child. Also, if I was 16years old still. I'd say shrooms are much better than LSD.
8NBome or 25i or whatever the fuck.Tripped on that real clean L memorialnday doe
is this where we brag about our drug habits? i went through 5 gram ket in a weekend, i operate on another level
89You realize that LSD is a synthetic, "research chem bullshit" drug too? You can always extract your own LSA if you're against that shit.9shrooms are much betterpleb confirmedshrooms are an organic poison, recognized by your digestive track each time you eat it. This is why it tastes like fucking shit if you've done it more than once and why you're more prone nausea and other negative physical side-effects.
6Used to lay out a bottle, cut into two lines and see who could bang a half g line in one go
nigger
ok
1

2Would you a Holo?
1I have before. Greatest. Experience. Ever.
is my bicycle alright?
4desire to know more intensifies
0You'll never know.
2
8Which one are you? Wait no fuck it, the answer's always no.
0
2I actually listen to that. Nice to know I'm not the only one. Same video and all.
1Good man we have here.
7Got me listening to it again. Favorite one by far is Kagen no Tsuki.
0B-but Kenshi to Yopparai.
0not "Seven aprul on za witch's tree"
5Not quite. Intro is probably my second favorite, outside of that all of it is great music. I miss this show. Watched it during a happy time in my life.
7pic is for you1Ah, I see. We all miss the show, especially Hol- the economics.
2Especially the econo- Holo.
most autistic thing you have ever seen 
, 
Why do atheists deny God when they know He is The Truth?
Can we get a rekt thread going
6Why didn't he just dig underneath the cage through the sand?
6 doesn't post the webm
5Because it's not fucking minecraft
, 
Sauce?
What charter do you hate the most out of any TV/Movie/Book series?
8wat
Surly "Laseen ", Book of Malazan the fallen
8Literally the only interesting character in the show
6Niggers
8the charter of 1830 fucking peasant merchants stealing french buisiness
8God - The Bible
8SWC in any show that she appears
Every character on Breaking Bad.
8All the theists and niggers in every movie ever
8Renly. The ass hat ruined everything. If he had not tried to steal the crown from the legitimate king, Stannis, then the chivalry of the South would have backed Stannis' claim and he would have sacked Kingslanding before Tywin could have raised and move into position his second host. Renly died like a jackass, because he is a jackass.
8
open SkypeWrite in a group chatshit brix
MMXVusing skypeYou brought this on yourselves.
, 
dubs decides what we raid
7Your moms house
7raiding is against the rules so NOTHING
How about /b/
7/b/ with shitposting
4rerolling
7My house, I'll release address
7
7/b/ with gay porn
we sign the petition to take Bruce jenner's medals away as many times as we can
1Reroll
1Rollin
What happen to niggers if they go to heaven? Do they turn white? Is god white? Is cheezus black?How do we know jeebus doesn't have Vitiligo? What color are people with Vitiligo if they go to Heaven? What if they go to Hell?Do white people turn black?Are we all just future Heaveniggers?
animals don't have souls, they don't go to heaven.
4Summer, she is a cruel mistress who cares naught for your pleas of mercy.
4there are no niggers in heaven, if there were it would be hell
0Pets go to heaven, niggers don't,
10You get bullied at school today Summerfags?
9i'm 29 i dropped out a long time ago
Feierabend Deutschland Thread:Arbeit fertig oder jetzt Nachtschicht?Was für Pläne habt ihr neben Saufen und Masturbieren?
Heil Hitler
, 
, 
West Virginia Nude Trend?! Trying to build fap folder..
Anyone got pics of incest here?
got any summers county? hinton or sandstone preferably
You don't want to see WV nudes.
0Fuck yeah I do. One of the hottest women I have ever seen lives in West Virgina
Im from WV, some of the women here are actually great looking...I would love to find a familiar face =D
dubs get her nudes trips get her sex vid
But ladies don't need to show themselves without clothes to be beautiful. I love her smile and I would love to hug her
5lol, thats Shades Grey, famous pornstar
0No way bro!...
op pls delivar i wanna punch her in the stomach while making sweet sweet love to her
5MODS!!!!!
5RellinShe's pretty cute
heard shes some kind off nun, no way theres nudes
0proof
She's got a real shit eating grin in that pic But she looks alright.
5What state, anon? Think I know her lol...
she got fat
4What. She looks old, like 30+
Fuck niggers make niggers roll
5rolling
2Smells like summer in here
247SAMEFAG Detected
6How u know
5Wtf are you, 12?2joey's right
9I am wolfkin so I can smell a troll a mile away
This is the gayest nigger shit of a fuck joke. It's not funny. your not funny for copying it for the 100th time. Than you have the cocksucking fuckoffs who call everyone on these fuckthreads newfags for saying that's sasha grey. meanwhile theyre just not fucktwads and know thow nigshit this crap is. Slice your fucking dicks off and shove it up your noses and post it and let us actually laugh at something decent for once.
I made this back in the day. I think it's the only OC I've made that the internet absorbed.
765Winrar. Dump nudes OP
3But if you have dubs, why are you an atheist?
5roll
2but if you aren't an atheist, how do you believe in dubs?
6Middle one was me, other two weren't. Suck it anon!
8You can't fool me kid. Know your place when I'm posting son
LOL YOU FUCKING NEWFAGS. She's a pornstar and did almost everything possible sex related. hahahahahah2015newfags dont know who sasha grey ismfw i have no face
TMZ says she's a teacher not a nun you idiots
2Prove it summer edgelord mc fuck face. you're tooooo gay
2This is baitOP was baitbaitoverload.jpg
Shes hot! Rolling!
2gr8b8m8
3Trips
63you are fucking too retaded to use google? i just told you names you fucking newfriends. fuckin gdie in firemotherless com/00007ED
look mom, I posted it again!
I fucking love Sasha's pubes.
2prove it
3Not sure anything in this thread isn't bait. But when there is no nonbait, is bait still bait?
Let's see those birkenstocks
5Are you still baiting or what?
2Trying this hard
2
8im not baiting you fucking idiot. these retarded just dont know who sasha gray. all fags from fappening are the same. fucking reddit and 9gag shits
1
5Being this new
5That isn't even her summerfag
2not realizing it was just a joke
0Baiting this hardSasha Grey is a dirty porn star.
4Nobody replies to the fucking picture we all came for due to bickering faggots. Shameful.Thank you very much anon, I saved in fact.
unnggh if only there were nudes of her
5WINRAR
5864you are fucking cancer and reason why 4chan is dead. kill yourself
4Sauce? What's her name???
0This must be b8.Unless you're too retarded to notice that they are joking you dickwit
1?????filename fuckface
3Get out of here summerfag. Isn't it past your bed time?
Rolling for nudesFuck this girl hot man.
mfw i was the one to start it up with sasha asking for her nudes here like 4-5 years ago
1She always gets posted and noone ever has sauce

Rolling for them nudes.
3Just looked up Sasha Grey and its not the same girl. Take your trolling somewhere else
8you are fucking retaded. i'm oldfag. i've been here since 2009 get on my lvl fucking twat
3DUBS OP DELIVAR FUCKING NOW!
4so much class in one picture
5Please don't post my nudes OP
3Listen here kid. I have only been here for a little over a week and I can bet my whole MLP collection that I know more about /b/ then you do summerfag
1
4Post your name sweety
4nice shoop faggot. Anyone can tell you just shopped her head on that pic. Doubt that's even her face...
1class="quote"Sasha Grey fuckface
4
8Mah britbong
0She looks so innocent. I Wonder what she's like in bed...
1Probably a virgin
0
4You think? God I hope she's not underage.
2
5
0
1How does one look "innocent"? Shut the fuck up ya retarded virgin
0
7She's the type of girl you marry and show some respect to. Too many common sluts these days
0
2britbong checking in
Ask someone who works on set of Good Mythical Morning anything.
Are you a nigger?
2Do you like sucking cocks?
2how much money do they make
where do you work
Who has a bigger dick? Rhett or link? Are they uncut? Rhett seems like he'd be uncircumcised.
3no5yes actually
2is Rhett an asshole?
2How are they when the cameras aren't rolling.I personally dont hate them, but they keep coming back in my youtube feeds and it's fucking annoying.
2Why is the show so shit?
2Why is that show so shit?
Can you please mention this thread to them?
Why havent you killed yourself yet?
2If you wish to be free, if you want dubs, trips and free quads to come down to you, vote for SPQR in the 4chan election, and post "ROMA INVICTA" in this thread!May the glory of rome give you what number you wish!nice trips!
2I fucking love GMM
8A good amount, this is their full time job, each video averages over a million views and after about a week it hits around 2 million. This is my part time job, I get paid a notch above minimum wage but it's really fun, I don't have to do any real work and get to basically hang out with some pretty cool people for 10 dollars an hour a few times a week.5Rhett probably has a bigger dick I'd imagine, and I'm 99 percent sure they're both cut. They were born on the east coast of the U.S in the 70s, that was like cutting central.
7Are you the girl with blonde?
They both appear to be massive cunts. Can you confirm?
is Link a nigger?
3because i'm not you6absolutely no0it's not that bad9they're both pretty chill. link is more prone to get angry but neither of them have been actually angry to the point of shouting. 2nah, he's cool.
2Is the guy with glasses a pedo?.
they both seem like they would be self absorbed or somethingare they assholes?hows the food table on set?
Have you fucked Stevie yet? She's hot af
8no, there's three but one doesn't appear on camera because fat. The two who do appear on camera are very cute, one had a roody-poo boyfriend though. 7no, they're both pretty cool guys
6tits or gtfo
Are they Mormon? They seem like they are. Don't know why.
prove it. tell them to say a word at the very end of the video, I suggest they say "newfag"
1/this
2phil? yeah the dude has some problems. he's stopped by the studio on more than one occasion, when he comes in the tone of the room changes. TGWTG is a fucking creep. I can't explain it in a single solitary post, but essentially neither rhett nor link nor the staff like him very much, but he LOVES GMM. The dude is a weirdo. He will come in with a shit eating grin plastered to his face while we are just trying to get work done for the following episode. He will be like "Hey" to the guys and walk around looking at the set like a starstruck 9 year old. It's super weird.9Nah not really, they're both pretty humble. They've brought their kids in and seem pretty down to earth.
0how often do you seem them playing with their hair?its been like 3 episodes about fucking hair
5I don't see that happening, but how about "jet fuel"?
did you replace william ray johnson?
7btw im a guy :1they are devout christians, we haven't talked about religion but I have never heard either of them curse. I'm not shitting you. 8do you suspect a bromance? shipping when
2that one dude with the black hair is a total faggot and you should kick him off the shownot a question just my demandi will not watch another good mythical morning with that fucking faggot in it
7That guy sounds dangerous, like shoot the president for Jodie Foster dangerous.
5you seem upset, let's talk about that.
Suggest that Rhett and Link open up with "Summer is here" on tomorrows GMM
6tits or gtfo faggot
Tell Jen i luv her.some random dude from Brazil
6devout christians
0Alright, i'll see what I can do.2She has read the comments, she knows about her following.
0Chekt and kekked
6Devout Christian or devout Mormon. I'm not sure which is worse.
2is it nice to be a professional fluffer?
0nothing to talk abouthe's a cringeworthy retard
2Can you please spike Rhett and Link with a Carolina Reaper without telling them? I wanna see that shit happen.
6 devout christian
1I'm pretty sure they're not mormon. Their wives don't wear those dresses.6yes
Can you prove to us that you are legit? Also post a pic of who this Phil is
2How does Rhett's beard smells like?
5:^8this is not a bad idea, I'm sure they'd go along with it.
5links cum
2Those guys are so fucking annoying. I like Youtube channels like Top15s, Rob Dyke, Danger Dolan and Wacky Wednesdays but those guys are unbearable.
6What're your initials?
Give us some proof with timestamp.
8this is phil. he will come in a few times a year and just be really creepy. he's the kind of guy who will stand over your shoulder and watch you edit an episode and just grin at the back of your head while not saying a single word. he eminates an aura that makes you want to exit the room immedietly, and i'm 99 percent sure everyone else on set rhett and link included feel the same way. dude is a nut. I don't know if it's true, but I heard that he demanded the amazing atheist to have sex with him or he'd withhold payment for his networked content. I guess taa declined and he left the network.
is have you gotten to fuck either of them?
6Rob fucking dyke? The most cringy motherfucker ever? Have you ever heard him imitate a girl? Have you not cringed so bad your bladder exploded?
6forgot pic
7That's doug walker...
7Who is that guy, what does he have to do with GMM
how big is batistas dick
5No that's Phil lolCan't you read?
u are a little cunt
4I can read just fine, seriously Google Doug Walker and you'll see what I mean
2proof?
0well played...¬_¬ well played!
0Dude he said its Phil...lay off with the Doug shit. If it was Doug wouldn't he say it was Doug? I'm not gonna Google some stupid shit to make you look even more retarded.
7That's that guy from "League of Super Critics" on YouTube. He has nothing to to with GMM or Rhett and Link.
can you post jen nudes?
9he has been in studio before, never been in an episode but Phil has stopped by.
9So why does he turn up. Does he work for youtube.
0It's fucking Phil, who the fuck is this Doug Walker you speak of? No one knows who he is.
2PhilWho is Phil?
2Just screenshot this thread and posted it with a link to both of their twitter accounts.Enjoy
3Dont take the b8, fags.
9DOUG FUCKING WALKER
9the faggot with the glasses
9picturefrom a phoneof a window on your computer
9Lol its so easy to see how photoshopped that is.Learn to edit images better and maybe I'll believe you, but probably not lol. Stupid idiot.9
9it's been said multiple times before, it's phil. are you fucking retarded?
2Jeez, I must be. My test results are coming tomorrow, I guess we'll have to wait and see.
9google dot co dot uk/searcch?q=Phil+Walkerwho are you trying to fool fag?
9on a pctakes a picture of screen using a camera -.-
9I love how far you go to feed the trolls.
5I must hand it to you, you had me going for a second there. Well done.
are you in the balloon firing squad for today's episode?
Spider man where are you!?
3I know, I'm pretty great at that
99CAN YOU STOP TROLLING
9your retarded antics have been ended by a single solitary google search, you retard
7*applause*
67ayy lmao
9Phiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil. His name is PHIL.
76trips detective confirms, it's phil
6I know, I'm so retarded it's off the fucking charts
The fuck is wrong with you people? Why ruin the first interesting thread today?
OP post more creep phil stories.
7Is this the nostalgia critic guy? What does he have to do with GMM?
7Welcome to /b/
4gr8 b8 m8
4No it's Phil.
5Not even baiting
0Oh, who is Phil then? Never seen him on GMM
7I love gmmbut derailing threads is more fun
6Phil.
1wow this got derailed fast.Last time phil came in was about four weeks ago. I help with set props and episode editing. We film new episodes a day in advance. What you see was filmed the previous day, and sometimes the work that goes into a single episode can be set up days in advance. We had shot a video, and were editing it. Basically, cutting bloopers and adding visuals. This was a debate-o-rama episode. I was putting in sound effects and phil came in. He stood there behind me, staring at the back of my head with the same shit eating grin as is to be expected with phil. He asks me "Hey, what are you making?" No "Hey man, what's up? I'm phil" or anything like that, just walks in, stands there like a fucking statue grinning at my head for minutes, then asks me what I'm making. I say "Helping to edit yest-" and he cuts me off. He already knows what the episode is about. He starts cracking up mid sentence and suggests I put a picture of obama with a crosshair over his head into the video a la Sam Hyde. I force a giggle and say "That's probably a bad idea". He calls me a loveable scamp what the fuck and walks out.Phil is a fucking menace.
Will link and rehett hamtube with me and hal?
You are definitely Eddie, Morgan, or Chase. You guys seem like you'd come on here.
How much would I have to pay Jen for her to embrace me in those tree trunk biceps? How about a handy with that GI Joe kung-fu grip?
2Chase is a pretty funny guy
9about tree fiddy
Rhett and Link are gay right
0no, both married.
4To each other.
4Who has the more attractive wife.
i want to sniff jen's panties
I want link to fuck my little but
8IMO link
2After she does Crossfit, sweaty as fuck and dripping with more testosterone than any of us. Yessssssss
Why are you doing this
6oh my god, i want her cunt juice on my face and on my hard cock.
4Why is anyone doing anything
6Deep
8I always thought it would be Rhett
Rhett and Link 100% suck eachother off on the DL.They spend all that time working together away from home. Behind the scenes their sucking eachother's cocks since middle school, and then asking god to forgive them afterwards.
So... do you have any proof at all of your occupation?
2Does Jen fart on the set?
2proofWhat are you, an atheist?
2take pic as proof,..../
4Yes. But I can't grow a neckbeard, so I just staple my pubes to my throat.
2what the fuck is wrong with Link's cheeks and why does he act like such a little bitchIsn't he like 30-40 years old? scared of everything
0In my mouth
Seems like op left
4im still here
3Is Chase a cool guy? He seems like it
Well, OP is gone. I guess I'll just go watch some Good Mythical Mudflap and think about what could have been...
3Give us sustenance then
I feel as though Rhett is mean to link most of the timelike subtle insults and put downs is this how it is off the set, or is Link evil?
Thread is kill
6I refuse thread is kill until this is answered
3he's pretty good.9nobody is asking shit.
6Does jen fart when she is on set?
Do you think I'm sexy? Look at my pic and let's jack together.
Who hates niggers more, rhett or link?Don't lie to me
4if she does, we can't hear it.0let's j/o
6Who's kinder/cooler/better in your experience? Rhett or Link?
6How about Noah? He kinda seemed awkward. Like maybe he's an autist or something?
4Nigger bitch answa the other question
2rhett9rhett
6I feel as though Rhett is mean to link most of the timelike subtle insults and put downs is this how it is off the set, or is Link evil?6
8i'm 99 percent sure noah is on the spectrum, but he's a cool guy nonetheless.
I want to fuck Hal like an animal.
6I feel the opposite. I get that brat-like mentality feeling when watching the two. For example: Today's episode in good mythical more, Rhett was hunched down smelling that fish shit and Link held his hand over Rhetts head asking "what if I just hit your head into it". Seems like if it weren't being recorded, he'd have done it. Also seems whiney. Watch them every morning though. Always good wake up entertainment.Not OP, obviously.
4Interesting, honestly I feel as though they kind of don't really like each other as much as they used to. They seemed to enjoy doing the show in the beginning more than now. But that's just my opinion.
5not in front of us. I watch every episode we work on and I have since I started working here, so I can see how you may think that. They keep bantz at a minimum at eachothers expense. link is shorter and has slightly more effeminate hair but he isn't beta, they're both similar in terms of alphaness, at least in my experience.
0Wow look at this gross faggot
OP, what is one thing that people don't know about the show that you think /b/ should know? You got any shit on anyone or anything?
3How much money do you think they make?
3Thnx, one last question, have they ever gotten sick from the shit they eat. I'm not talking about gagging, but genuinely gotten sick later on in the day or something.
45they've been pretty close friends since elementary school and have been in business together for at least two decades. We don't hang out outside of work, but the show is really an act. They are friends outside of GMM good ones at that but the show and the antics on it are HEAVILY exaggerated.
3How do you mean? Example?
9I'd say each makes over 80 grand a year, probably closer to 100+. 2Not visibly enough to hamper progress of the show. That fish that Pewdiepie brought in produced such a horrid smell that we actually gone through two cans of room freshener and a brick of flameless candle wax to minimize it, and it still lingered for days.
Pick related. It's me and my pork bro. We jack together consistently and thoroughly.Sometimes we rub heads.
8They have probably gotten in arguments before, but they both realize that the show is a huge benefit to them both. They seem happy offset and onset, and what anon said about being less enthusiastic, I personally don't see it. They sell a SHITTON of merch, I'm pretty sure all the staff could get paid just off merch sales alone.
8Is anyone you work with a blatant asshole?
did u guys still hang out with that "the hey hey show" chicks?
4Noah isn't an asshole per se, but he is pretty awkward at times. The paranormal investigator guy that came in a few months back was a fucking dick. We talked to him before and after the show and the guy was a massive self important cocksucker. He would interject our questions about the legitimacy of ghosts and the paranormal with things like "Implying" and "You don't know that." The guy was def a 4chan user and probably an /x/phile.
9I'm pretty sure Rhett and Link do a number of things. Not just the GMM show. Didn't they dabble with advertisement and they also have sponsors. I'm sure they make enough money to support their families. Everyone's always swatted that question away when thrown at them. Again. Not OP.Here's a question for OP, though. They seem to mention a backlog of videos. Like you said before, each episode is shot the day prior which makes sense. I take it they go live at 3 a.m. west coast because they're live at 6 EC. Are there any videos that have been recorded that just didn't make the cut. Asking in particular, have they just kind of completely refused to be around eachother for any various reason which effected the recording of tur show. Lately, it seems like their fuse has been rather short with eachother. Tl;Dr Do they get pissed enough with eachother that it effects the episode, or are there any episode that didnt air for said reason or any reason at all
All this disrespect for the true alpha of GMM
8Have either Rhett or link come in severely hung over?
Does Rhett smell like sandalwood? I feel like Rhett smells like sandalwood. And link probably smells like cotton
1lovable scampWhy Phil, why?
2What is Good Mythical Morning. I just reply to OP with out look at the thread
5For every video produced, we have anywhere between 30 minutes and an hour of footage, we do our best to condense it down to anywhere between 10 and 20 minutes just depending on what all goes on.There have been shitty videos. Poor preperation, poor antics back and forth / dialog or really just anything. In that case, the video is usually replaced with something easy to make in a few hours notice, such as a top 5 or commentary on crazy stories. That is to say, not all of the easy videos are results of a shitty episode.Do they get pissed enough with eachother that it effects the episode, or are there any episode that didnt air for said reason or any reason at allNo, not since I started working there, and not ever since GMM started that I know of. The show will likely not end anytime soon, as this is a huge source of income for them. If they have issues with eachother, they are likely to put it aside and do their best to just get over it so they can continue working on the show.
Jack me off, Hal.I'm about toJack me off, Hal.That's what I was born to do
7When did you start working at GMM?
6Rob Dyke? OUouou this wurld is so fucking trange a kid killed herself to death wehile killing his cat on the school roof ououo
1Link drinks more than rhett surprisingly. There have been times where we have legit all gotten drink prior to a show. Not drunk enough to get fucked, but buzzed comfortably. A few shots or beers before a show usually gets the bantz flowing, which is great for views.I'm not bullshitting you, this has happened many more times than you think. During the water balloon episode we filmed a couple days ago, we were all drunk.
7Feb3More on this; If either link or rhett get out of their chairs and walk around set for whatever reason, we're likely all drunk, ESPECIALLY if they're getting a set prop. We are supposed to bring props to them, and if they are getting up to get it, it means we're all buzzed and just winging it.Every episode where they eat something insane, they're drunk. Rhett and link were buzzed during the link snake pit episode.
7Thanks OP. Appreciate it. Do you enjoy working on the show? Seems like it'd be a chill place to work in. The show has managed to stay relatively consistent since it's earlier seasons, sans the up in production value. I've seen too many youtubers earn more money and change themselves, effecting content. Particularly let's play youtubers. Its all become shouting and yelling and cussing every few words. The pewdiepie effect. Markiplier being an example. Someone from Game Grumps posted on /b/ before. Stopped watching that shut ever since. You've not altered my morning routine, though.
3I was honestly expecting you to say they didn't drink at all. It's awesome they do though. Do they ever piss you off?
9
5It's not even photoshopped it says Phil Walker at the top
7Have you ever been on camera. In other words, would we recognize you if we knew who you were?
7Pewdiepie is fucking loaded, partly due to the fact he has no one helping him and he does all his own stuff. He doesn't have an army of interns to help with editing, so he is able to make a shit ton. I definately enjoy it. I go to college and live with my girlfriend, working on GMM is my part time job. I work probably 20 hours a week and help mostly with video and audio editing. has anyone pissed you offLink has, only once. As said earlier he's more prone to anger than Rhett surprisingly. I showed them the finished product, Rhett said it was all good and he thinks we should air it, but Link had a problem with the way the visuals ended up looking. He wanted me to change it up, so I did. I was a little frusturated but whatever, i'm being paid. Other than that, they're both pretty cool
0Yes, I was in todays episode.
Always thought this looked like Jen.
55Fake and gay
5does this have a part two or anything?
1Totally real.my buddy hal made that
1Shits old faggot. Not Jen but someone who looks like her. You new here?
2How'd you end up getting the job?
0Nah. She disconnected looks like accidenly before anything could happen
3Did you play tummysticks with him after?
6accidentallydude, it's obviously fake. how can you not see that?
5Troll harder. Its not obvious yet.
OP, is there any way you can leave us a coded message in the next episode? Put something in the background or something discrete. That would be cool. Unless you'd be fired, the fuck dat shite.
7It's not even a troll. That image is a set up.Her complete 180 degree change in attitude when some creep shows his cock on the internet, the stupid nodding she does and the "anything" response.Fake.Gay.Kill yourself for thinking that was an actual exchange between two people.
1Looks like summers here
How often do you browse /b/
1Not fake faggot Look up Hal on redtube
2Are you talking about the nostalgia critic dude?
5Long enough to know QUINTS
5Also, you cant ignore the quints.
5The 5 of quints.well done.
5Come on OP keep the thread alive
7
0It was a local ad on CL for someone who could work with Photoshop and Sony Vegas. I have no professional experience. I contacted them through CL and sent them things I have made. They emailed back, showed me they were GMM and said they wanted to interview me. I showed up to the studio for an interview and I got hired part time. 8I'll try to sneak a picture of Pepe in somewhere. Keep your eyes peeled.5Daily5You mean Phil?
0Thanks OP, I'll twist my nipples in appreciation.
3Thanks OP, you've melted my steel beams.
3What kind of pepe? And where on the screen should we look?
ARCHIVE THIS THREAD.PHIL MUST NOT BE FORGOTTEN.
3Could you send me a free gmm mug?
9A rare one. You'll know it when you see it. If there's a plug with a lot of onscreen assets, I'll try to slip it in. There is likely going to be a plug for the GMM audible, check there. I work tomorrow, so depending on what we're working on, the Pepe will be in on Monday or Tuesday's video.
9Absolutely, post address.
1Kek
1Thanks FBI, NSA, CIA, KGB, NASA, IMF, ISIS, UK, USAF
141 Spring street, Edinboro PA, 16444
7Thanks FBI, NSA, CIA, KGB, NASA, IMF, ISIS, UK, USAF, GMM.ftfy
2Guise it's not Phil Walker he was in a car crash u turds. A-duh
6I will keep my eyes peeled. I hope OP is not a faggot
9Thanks /b/rother
Fuck Phil. Goddamn Mustard Tiger
1That's my legit address. I'll be expecting my free things.
I fuckin love stevie, tell me, how much cock does that whore take on a daily basis from you guys?
3Phil grabbed her ass once.
Even though thread is kill, it was interesting even if op is a massive faggot.
ME and xuxu are probably the biggest fans here
3says he loves stevieproceeds to call her a whorehow does it feels to know you'll never touch those supple tits
2I doubt it. I'm a bigger fan
5Do you guys have any idea on the next debate o rama?
Phil Walker.hr8 b8 m8.
6Rhett vs Link, where each person argues on behalf of the other.
9using camera to take picture of screenbook marks memebaseimplying I'd fall for this baitYou didn't really think you were going to bait me with this did you?
0That could be interesting. How about the Will It series? Anything on them?
What's stopping you from going on the set one day and blowing those two faggots away with a shotgun?
0How much fan mail do they really get?
7lets talk about that
5A metric fuckton
7Nostalgia Critic?
6No, common misconception but that's Phil.
5Do you like Nilla Wafers?
4Will it soda?You take weird shit, but starting off with regular soda like Cola and Fanta and just mix them, ingredients get weirder as you go.
Any hints to who you actually are? Ever been in an episode?
5i was in today's episode. i'm have a penis6it's phil
OP, don't forget about the Pepe you promised us!
1i wont. don't forget about phil
Where you one of the "Mythical firing squad"?
6Didnt say that wasnt his name, im asking if its him though
0Op, this was one of the most interesting threads that's been on here in a long fucking time.
1Yes, and the gumball scene.
7thx
6what did they do the with the ball after the episode then?
In the episode where they suck each other's cocks, is the cum real?
4Which one?
2How long after an episode is filmed does the web actually see it? And do they just film like 5 episodes in one sitting and just change clothes? i can't imagine going to a studio every day like a real job. How does that work?
0What a whiteknighting faggot you are
WHICH ONE?
0Would they be mad you made this thread?
8it was thrown away. that thing was fucking DISGUSTING. holy shit you have no idea.2not going to say who I am11 to 3 days. We shot the balloon scene two days ago, and the gumball scene yesterday. It aired this morning. 2the one with the red box.
4Eddie?
9Both rhett and link have been on 4chan. They'd probably be like "ugh why" but not mad enough to fire me or anything. Better to air on the side of caution.
Stevie? Alex?
4You should ask them to consider getting Louie C.K. on the show.
0This. All of this.
Fucking eddy
0DO IT or put a timestamp when you're at the studio
0phil *
7Link an episode with phil.
Do you think either of them have tried any drugs like coke, heroin, meth or some shit?
9this
No fucking way. Do they secretly hate eachother?
One of the girls has a penis, hint for you all guessing
7they still do sometimes, even offered some coke to me after a shoot once.
So the record winner of 90 milion euros in European lottery from Czech Republic has burned the ticket . What does /b/ think about it ?
Video here 
nobody gives a shitdoes sage still work? trying it nowi hope it does
Not /b/, but I think that is just silly. Give me money
, 
I hate the governement of canada
what it do?
8I hate that stupid french fag steven harbor But atleast we don't have a nigger for a president
2Steven harper is not french
5wtf he isint? yeah he is
Why u haet?????
2we dont have a president, we have a prime minister, uneducated fuck
1Jokes on you, i'm not even from canada
8Girlfriends Co worker lives in canada but comes down to the states for work once every couple months or so. She always tells my girlfriend on how the USA sucks and its better in Canada. The company even offered to pay for her move to work here and she refused. Saying it would be too much of a "cultural shock" to live here? I am in Ohio so I could drive to Canada in 3 hours or so. Is it THAT different?
5They have something called Stalinism, it is the ideology that rules in Canada
8Don't worry, by the end of October Mulcair will be the PM & we can stop giving money to build prisons we don't need, kill bill c-51 in totality & not give CSIS a quarter billion dollars to stop opiate abusers who think their muslim from killing one or two people & calling them a terrorist threat.
2As much as I hate the jewish overlord Stephen Harper, he's kind of based in some aspects. He completely shuts down SJWtier bills and he's all for giving gun rights back to the citizens.While he is a complete fucking retard in other areas you have to count your blessings we don't have some ultra hippy faggot as prime minister. I just wish he wasn't such a fucking heeb lover.
8Where are you from?
, 
So what do you shave with, /b/?Pic related; my set up.
Fnaf R34 thread
9Cheap disposable twin blade. Get 2 uses out of each one. I think its stupid to buy all this shaving shit. All it does is make you feel important. Absolutely does nothing to make a shaving experience better. Oh you think youre special for lathering up with a brush and expensive cream? Get the fuck outta here! Disposable twin blades and barbasol!
0paying more for an inferior productWelcome, newfriend.
0How is it more? Its cheap? New blade every 2 shaves? Thats more expensive fagatron!
8paying more for an inferior productWelcome, newfriend
nice dildo
6Mods, requesting b& on this obvious underage.
9I only shave the cheek part of my beard to keep it neat and for that I have a bag with disposable razors from a dollar store, for everything else I just use my trimmer without the guide.
9ITT:OP tries to impress people with his hipster collection of manly shaving gearGets called a fagSamefags his thread and calls his detractors "newfriend"normal day on /b/
9Oh its this hipster shit thread again..
5Mods, requesting b& on this obvious underage.
, 
Do newfags even know their social security?!
, 
Hello to my fellow Canadians, in the nearing months ahead. New bills will be passed on the agenda for The RCMP troopers deaths this weekend. In regards to the shootings, 3 Mounties were shot dead 2 seriously injured.As a result the RCMP said, and I quote. They where unprepared for Individuals with better/high powered weapons, they had lack of training and poor equipment supplied to them.I see the RCMP militarization imitate like in the states. The shooting seemed like a inside job for police militarization in Canada. I knew they'd join the club sooner or later. What are your comments ?
America  Canada
0Anyone else  You
i love saying things on the internet with no sources or proof to back me up
7They are doing the right thing imo.Who the fuck needs a police that can only effectively get kittens off trees and run around after pickpockets? Police should be a highly reactive force, that can pack a punch of justice if needed so.
6Yeah justice 619762719It was on cbc news faggot
im from NB where this happened, there has been a responsethe police have taken to demonstraing their power. at a church where my brotheer plays bball they are training the service dogs, the whole chase and everything they r fucking disgusting. ps im high as fuck right now
9Also from NB Perth-Andover 3 hours away from Moncton where the shooting happened
3Did you family around at the time of the shooting ? If you don't mind me asking.
7Well its time the mounties upgraded from hockey sticks to guns.
3Fredericton, 15 mins away i was in the danger zone bitchez
6What? Did you family around at the time of the shooting? I don't understand the question.
8Typical murica fag
7More then 15 from Fredericton 30 at least right?
8Sorry we're they around the area where the shootings happened ?
2Yeah actually my parents were in Moncton when the shooting went down they were evaced from the hotel it was 5 mins away from where one cop was fatally shot.
, 
, 
The only girl I ever had feelings for used me for sex. She knew how I felt about her, and even rejected me in the past."im not attracted to you."fucks mecuddles with megoes homelater on facebook"Yes I used you, but It's okay, we both wanted it."I blocked her right after seeing that. Did I do the right thing? I mean, if she rejected me and I moved on, why did she sleep over, cuddle, and fuck?
9you reposted it.stop that
9hey, at least you got to fuck her brains out.like the song goesdoesnt matter had sex
5This. A female can't use a male for sex, they're devices for our enjoyment.
Op sounds like an absolute faggot
4especially with funbags like those am i right anon?
4males cant get rapedthis is why we need meninism
9It's rough : but sometimes friends use friends like that, but feeling used is on your part. There's just times I need something in me and I don't want to date a guy, I don't want the mess of the nerdy insecure dudes I usually hang out with, but *sometimes* I want to walk around with a belly full of baby batter for whatever reason. Sad to say but the more used they feel the better?So good job. Keep up the good work bunny boy :3
9it wasnt rape anon. they both consented, OP got butthurt because she had no feelings. she wanted to bone him to satisfy him and his fantasy.she did him a fucking service, I'd fucking thank her for taking away my goddamn V cardalthough i agree guys can get raped, but its mostly but other guys really, not often women will rape guys, but yea it happens
9um ur a filthy empath autist
9Doesn't matter, had sex.
9suck it up buttercupbetter to have nutted and lost than to never have nutted at all
5what a fucking whore
Guise wat is dis
Reverse Albino birth.
2Nooo...trips tho
Never saw a clit? You virgin.
0I just have a bad feeling about this.
, 
Why are atheists so hostile to the idea of 'religion,' when atheism is itself just another religion?
I don't think it is... They don't believe in anything. I might be wrong, but a religion needs a code or a dogma to follow. Atheists don't have that.
3there is no god, anyone one can be god *tip*
I disagree with that, but you're entitled to your own opinion like I am mine.
Discuss.Also why does google need to be able to identify sushi?
I don't get it
0im so fucking confused
/thread !
0I have no idea. Why do we even have this new picture pick captcha shit? What ever happened to typing words? Its stupid? Sometimes I fuck up because the pictures are so fucked up.
0Google is learning for their photo recognition software
4The trick is to fuck up every time so the computer accepts fuck ups.
4same but i was given word captcha a while a go. first time in a long time
7I do this sometimes but it takes longer when it doesn't accept the answer. The street signs are the fucking worst I hate that shit. It's probably for their fucking self driving car I hate working for free
0
, 
, 
Hi /b/ could one of you x-ray this grill streamer. It is vitally important to me.
bump
2This is also important to me, what a coincidence
2015 picking this ugly whorenot best girl gamer in the world
1They're almost exactly the same
12015thinking Kacey is hotter than this girlImplying this girl isn't the hottest girl on Twitch
2One is the orginial with bigger tits. The other is a poser with 2 pushups on for her B cup tits
neither of them are good streamers.
Who is this?
8kaceytron
8Thats raihnbowkidz
being this defensiveKacey pls go
way more hotter than kaceytrawn with her crooked ass face and shit tier trolling kinetics
8
2also raihnbowkidz with bathing suit on can we get an x-ray?
9way more hotterGo back to 4th grade faggot.
2you're welcome
Shes the most generic looking white girl ever with small tits. 4/10 maybe would bang
, 
Desktop Thread.No cleaning
poor bait
im probably the only fag who listens to death grips here but whatever
4
bump
0Guillotine.... Yah.
0nope, Ihad GP album cover for like a year m8
0Thug Life!
, 
Cringe thread.
hey /b/how do i search through my sister's galaxy s5? she has a 4 digit pin on it and i cant figure it out
bump, will post any of her nudes i found
Watch her unlock it dumbass
Ask to see her wallpaper collectionWatch her unlock itTake while she showersSteal nudes by copying folders to PC????Share with /b ros
I hate femininity so much.I know it's an illusion, a tool used to lure and trap males, even constructed feminism, and I know it's working on me because now I want to fuck Bruce Jenner. I want to fuck this freakshow, this toxic, mentally disturbed older man.My penis is betraying me right now. It's turning me into a monster. I hate it.
0now I want to fuck Bruce Jenner.Don't worry, you just want to fuck the photoshopped image of Bruce that was on the vanity fair cover. Since the real bruce looks nothing like that, you're safe for the moment.
are you sure you aren't gay?
0you think that's bad? it's luring thousands of guys into trying to change their sex
0ugh, when you look closely at the face its hideous. It simultaneously looks wrinkly and saggy and tight and hard and stretched. No wonder they stuck huge glasses on it.
I also wan to fuck Caitlen.Shes soooo hot.
0Why do I see a penis in the reflection of the open door window?Is the camera man jerking off or just trying to make caitlen smile?
0Homosexual detected. Not that there's anything wrong with it. You go girl!
0Well I am trans mtf and 22 and I don't even listen to the radio or watch television. I am usually at the range or building custom motorcycles. Not every trans person is some sjw faggot.
2She's still 65 years old, the sex change didn't make her younger.
5do guys whistle at u?
5yea, there's plenty of them like you...just regular faggots.ur tits are gross btw
0OP, you aren't going to like what I have to tell you, but all I offer is the truth.You hate women, because you are weak. You lack the necessary skills and talents, to charm them to your way of thinking.Were you the kind of person who spent a large percentage of your waking-hours dedicating yourself to a singular purpose, you would find that most, if not all of your hatred would be redirected elsewhere.Instead, your hatred is directed at women because you are lazy and unmotivated.Even men who, for all intents and purposes, are considered "ugly" by society's standards, manage to attract good-looking, available, personable women because they know ... not think, not feel, not believe, but KNOW ... that they have acquired enough skills through sheer hard work, for their confidence to be justified.You would know this also, if you did a single day's worth of hard work in your life.
5More pictures!
5tits or gt-- oh.
0fuk you.NEET master race.enjoy wasting 5/7 days a week spending most of your waking hours working a mind numbing job that probably pays little.I vill not obey the robots.
2You mean he*
5Let me ask you this smartass anon. When you look in the mirror do you like the person you see. At least now as Caitlyn it's not sadness looking into a mirror for HER.
4You mean him*
4sjw libcuck detected
4At least now as Caitlyn it's not sadness looking into a mirror for HER.Because he is mentally ill.Bruce was a good looking man.An accomplished man.
I fuckin hate all this Bruce Jenner faggot shit
7some times, I dunno it makes me smile a bit and feel good about myself but I don't ever want to date anyone really, I am still a virgin and plan on keeping it that way as to avoid trouble
0Prove to me it's a mental illness in any way.Bruce was a good looking man.I'm not even going to touch that quote.An accomplished man.Haha no, he's just famous.
2Sex is overrated but love isn't.You don't ever want to get into a relationship like that?What about friends? Do you have many close friends?
3It's a pasta.
5'sup, zman.
8Prove to me it's a mental illness in any way.Because when I am high I hate myself and I hate my reflection in the mirror.When I am sober I like what I see even though I am a shell of what I used to be looks wise.It isn't normal to look in the mirror and hate yourself.Especially if you are a sexy guy like Bruce was.Haha no, he's just famous.He won the Olympics. He was on a wheaty box. He was an influential speaker.He is more accomplished then most men.
0I don't have any friends really, just a couple of employees in my moto shop. And as for dating and stuff I don't really do it because a part of me does not want to disappoint /pol/. I know its strange but I am conservative as fuck and anti lgbt.
8It's cute that you're living in your own little bubble, support the tranny, i'm sure he'll appreciate it if HE gave the slightest amount of shit about you pathetic blind supporters, crawl back to Tumblr.
8he was in the olympics you faggot
3A gold plated coin on a ribbon and a picture on the box of wheaties.Even with endorsements he could of had you can't deny the olympics are a joke.
2Well you must be pretty smart if you built your own business.Kudos to that.I respect the fact that you can find happiness & contentness without that social aspect.I personally have been unable to find happiness without friends and other closer personal relationships.The lonliness just starts to overwhelm me eventually and life just feels meaningless.Then again I am a NEET not some auto business owner so naturally our minds are stimulated differently.
2a part of me does not want to disappoint /pol/nigga... you retarded
3shit bait
4Well you must be pretty smart if you built your own business.Kudos to that.Thank you. Don't be so hard on yourself. I was a neet too before transition. All I ever did was sit on my ass and feel depressed and play fallout. Then I started hormones and went to community college for machining and I got a loan for my motorcycle business. I was already pretty savvy with bikes because when I got bored I would go in the garage and money around with old dirt bikes. But as far as the trans stuff goes, this jenner shit is bullshit. I don't want faggot liberal sheeple giving fake support to attention whore trans people like brucie. I just want to be left alone and live stealth as a tomboyish girl, which is what I do.
0No I am not. Sure lots of shit /pol/ says is stupid but most it pretty accurate and I hate the sjw feminist faggy bullshit. Yeah I am mtf trans but I don't act like a fucking drag queen. I just throw on my bra and panties, a bit of eye make up, lip gloss, some jeans, a tank top and some DC skate shoes and I go about my day. I rarely wear skirts or heavy makeup and that shit.
5thanks for sharing your thoughtsi know 2 trans kids living quietly and they think along similar lines.they just want to live their lives, pay their taxes, and be left alone
2You seem fairly manly in the way you live.Why did you feel the need to transition in the first place?Also sorry but /pol/ is hardly accurate 99% of the time.They are just hate filled people with extreme biases that never see but one side of the fence on whatever issue they are discussing.Their view of the world is so absurdly distorted and false that it is hard to take them seriously.
8they just want to live their lives, pay their taxes, and be left aloneyep thats me I just wish more people could see the sane side of many trans people but sadly the loudest idiots have the loudest voice. I wish sjw's did not jump on the lgbt band wagon
1Their view of the world is so absurdly distorted and false that it is hard to take them seriously.kindaYou seem fairly manly in the way you live.Why did you feel the need to transition in the first place?Well for me I was always in literal pain over my gender. I was kinda girly when I was young and I got beat several times, pissed blood and lost teeth over it so I became a shut in and tried to shut off the girly thoughts. I was in deep repression till 3 years ago when I found a trap thread here and learned about transition. Back then I was basically a bodybuilding nazi trying to repress.
5post pics of dick
9Whats the point of being a sexy woman if you just wanna be left alone in isolation?I mean you probably can't even fap anymore cuz of the hormones.I mean is it all just so you can look in the mirror and say "ooh look im a pretty girly" *smiles*seems like alot of work for such a little payoff.
4Sorry about that stuff.The world is a cruel place and you didn't deserve to have that happen to you.I have always tried to follow the golden rule myself.
9you can still be fucked in the asfeels good manam gay
9Not really. Some times I get dolled up in a tiny black dress and heels with jewelry and my hair down and drive into the city to listen to an orchestra when they are in town and maybe get a drink or two at a nice bar. I talk to guys most the time because I do pass very well and they basically buy me like $50 dollar glasses of whiskey. But all I do is talk, because I am still on the fence about sex. 8would if I could but its gone, audios, syanara.
9quit being a bottom kid.there are too many gay bottoms.I want to be the only one.bad enough I am 6'5...
3yikes broif its any consolation, hormones helped me lose 3 inches of height.
8Meh.I took Propecia for awhile and my dick started not working right so I quit it.Id love to take hormones but I like having a normal sex drive/function.
1i dont think you know what the fuck you are talking about. Im a black/latino immigrant and i agree with /pol/ most of the time. Its a very heterogeneous place.Go there, lurk a little bit and try to show your opinion in a non retarded way. Of course there are some hot heads, trolls and some blind people. But if you can support your opinion with facts and logical arguments you will be able to have some nice and honest discussions, if you are into that sort of thing.
6post pics of what's left pls
1I have lurked /pol/ in the past.its just a huge turd. sorry.most of what is posted is just biased, illogical, racist nonsense without citations or only using one set of facts which support while completely ignoring the facts which would easily destroy the argument.its a shithole filled with angry racist people.spending time there is generally not healthy.
2Well its called a "neo vagina" and it works and all, was as painful as a shark attack, and I am not too fond of showing pictures of it at all. I think only my gynecologist has seen it, he was also the surgeon that did the operation.
2You are an interesting human. I'm proud of you, in a way. Good job trying to stay faithful to /pol/.
4Thanks I guess. I am still weary of people being nice to me. There is a fine line between actual niceness and just some faggot trying to be nice to inflate his ego. I hope with you its the former rather then the latter.
See you in 5 years, hon.
8lol I know of a ton of self hating mtf's that were /pol/ tards, I was one.
0
7No, I just find it fascinating and refreshing that you prefer to live a private life instead of flaunting it and demanding special treatment. You can hold your female identity separate from all the SJW bullshit infecting society. Its respectable.Hopefully my comment didn't come off as sarcasm. I do browse /pol/, but not so much these days because I get too angry at the world. Luckily I have a girlfriend I can speak my opinions openly with.
9pls man i've never seen onei will pay you $10 in bitcoin for pics
8No it did not come off as sarchasm, thanks man. I like it when /b/ can be civil for once. You know back in 2009 it was actually nice here, there were real mods, forced memes never were allowed to exist and people talked with some respect to each other. Now mommies with money gave typical idiot millennials lap tops and ruined a good chunk of 4chan.
4Here is an example of my doctors work. Now I know the labia on this one is a nut sack but that's because she was circumcised, luckily I was not as a child so I had enough material to make a very passable vag.
4Oh and she is 23 years old by the way, I was 20 when I had mine done.
0Me too. I was full on MRA because I was upset about hearing feminists constantly talk about privilege, because it came off as them complaining about being women and deep down I so much wanted to be one. I was raised in a conservative christian family and sheltered till about 16, so I never considered the fact I might be trans. It wasn't until someone on /b/ was posting about being trans and I though "Well shit, that sounds like me." So I went and looked up some scholarly articles about gender dysphoria, and it described my past experiences to a T.Basically, you're the reason I'm a girl now /b/. 3
5Can attest. Am typical idiot millenial who got a laptop from mommy, except mommy is the US government, and I'm actually pretty successful in my career.But, I've been here since at least '09, and can tell you that /b/ has always been shit
8if you have a condition that can only be resolved through brutal plastic surgery then its pretty clear that it's not a normal thing to haveI'm not even hating. Humans have been dealing with that condition since forever, it's not like suddenly there are all these people who are wanting to swap genders cause of the time we live in. Getting your physiology sculpted in an operating room is not normal. It has never been normal. Humans did not evolve their sense of gender based on the availability of cosmetic surgery. I'm not even saying it's wrong. You should be able to do whatever the fuck you want with your body. But saying that it's not a disorder is factually incorrect.
5/b/ could be so much more than it is. I appreciate it as a bastion of free speech, but the good threads really are few and far between these days. I started coming here in 2007 was 17 so I've seen it go downhill. You're spot on.
1/b/ has always been shitNo it hasn't that is a forced meme from around 2010 and led to people treating /b/ like a garbage dump. You have been civil though and I respect that.
0LRN2SELF-CONTROLand quit blaming women for your pathetic shortcomings, faggot
4No one said it was normal. Who said it was normal? I know I am fucked in the head but I rolled with it and I am doing much better in life. 9Are you anti lgbt and anti sjw like me though? I hope you are normal like I am, well as normal as a tranny could get...
4propane can't melt steel beams

Alright b, help me out. I bought some breast forms on amazon, but i dont know if they already have adhesives on them or if i need to buy it separately.Pic relatedinb4 fag and stupid
This picture /b/ros.
That picture
pretty good
This pitcher /b/ros.
8Since when is Ash a mexican?
0"Ooh thas a good one!!"
2He's not, but he's a bit darker in the new series
27 decides what my new name will be
Is it really worth it? School, job, money and all those things that makes you enjoy the yet mortal life. I am don t want to look like a special snowflake in everyday life of capitalism, I just want to lay in the grass, listen to some good music and watch clouds.I just feel like fucking off everything and see how are things going to happen, I can always kill myself if things go wrong.
I feel the same
7What plans do you have? I tend to have none, I am not disappointed after.
9I don't have many plans. I get high, stay sober sometimes. Do whatever the fuck. I won't be happy either way so might as well fuck around. Death isn't that scary.
9I wish to meet some people like you, go for a drink or smoke, without everyone talking about themselves whenever they have the oppurtunity
4ITT: weak faggots
4Whatever you say anon, but we all die. So whatever you are doing to make your life better keep doing it, I am happy with my nothing, I don t have to look good, have a good computer, phone.I guess I feel kind of envy towards you, being stupid must make many things much easier
Cox called me 15 min ago to inform me that they will be cutting-off my service at 5pm central US time. What all should I download in the meantime?
1Manual how to free internet
7all other wi-fi signals here in my apartment are password protected.
1Starbucks locations
still looking for download recommendations, anything interesting go ahead and post
bumpin with chubs
9Thats why manual, you dumbass
Anyone know who number five is?
this girl literally dumps nudes. shes really annoying so get nudes or send gores if you would like.
get nice and highget in bed after long day of workmasterbate fiercelygreatest cum in foreverslowly open eyes and see only yellow and green for a minutemasterbate again 30 minutes latersecond greatest cumsees only yellowfelt so good man
 2 weeks no fap fap greatest cum ever
Nicely wew'd my ladam I old fag yet?
hi /b/. im looking for a particular type of toy/vibrator that is 100% controllable by an online party and not just the user.im not sure of the name, but basically, for an example to give you all, if can control a persons vibrator via remote software over skype even if im not physically there with them.does anyone know what i am talking about? and can you guys also tell me your experiences with such software? i know chaturbate uses it, but it only works for tips, however i know for a fact that there are vibrators out there that can be controlled remotely over the internetor even through cell phone without the silly need for token tips. can you guys help me out?
Don't be such a fucking retard
Stick your phone up your ass and give us your phone number, fag.
92 of those links its only controllable by android/iphone phones. the rest are actually bull shit links.
Hey /b/I got a couple of prescriptions. Sertraline being one of them. I kinda have to take it or visit the asylum.Are there any tests for that stuff out there? Can i just pretend to take it?Does anyone have experiences with that stuff? Should i give it a try?
Pretty sure sertraline is just Zoloft. Actually one of the milder antidepressants. It might help you. Yes there are ways for them to see if you're taking it. But I'm pretty sure they'd have to draw your blood.
8This. I took Zoloft for awhile. I didn't really like it.
8Shit. They test me for ...a few substances weekly.Is it easy to get off that stuff? How much do the side effects suck?
5In my experience Zoloft is easy to get off of. Its very mild and doesn't have a lot of side effects. Maybe some slight weight gain but you still have control of what you eat. Lexapro, on the other hand, was a bitch to get off of. I don't have insurance and its still expensive even though its generic now so I had to ditch it. I've never been on heroin but the withdrawals have to be similar.
, 
Why can't atheists define god?
9because there is nothing to define.
9Why can't you use the neverending story pic instead so I can ignore the post faster?
Something need to be done about this Fucking GODOFILE that keeps spamming shit. Shitty image.
4it's the board management. they try to make /b/ unuseable. there's spiderman in every ss thread, there's banana in every ylyl thread and now it's time they did something about the catalog. maybe a 4chan w/o a /b/ component may be easier to sell, I dunno.
They need a religious board!
4Report them with this in a post:2. Global rules 1, 2, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, /13,/ 14, and 15 are enforced.13.Do not use avatars or attach signatures to your posts.If you get banned, it means the rules are meaningless. Plus, obvious appeal.
5there's always /pol/ for those religiously incontinent.disclaimer: I'm a poltard
4
I'm on mobile at the moment, but can we have a Filename YLYL? Filename YLYL
you can go fuck yourself
3= why so hateful
, 
Welcome to typical /b/ thread, /b/.Roll:0 - calls OP a faggot1 - "hahahaha guys lets ride tumblr XD"2 - "noice dubs mate, check mine"3 - calls samebody a newfag or summerfag4 - calls no. 2 a retard and asks to gtfo5 - calls no. 3 newfag; politely ask to "gtfo to tumblr"6 - spams stale pasta7 - "/b/ is dead, only trannies and shit these days"8 - just lurks9 - "this is spiderman thread now!"dubs - actually valid and interesting commenttrips - hilarious ocquads - content so glorious, it becames a legend of /b/
9roll for OP faggotry
9lets ride tumblrride tumblrride
roll.jpg
9roll for checkem
r0lla
OP fag roll
RELL XDXDXDD
Roll!!!!!!
check em /
/b/ is dead, only trannies and shit these days
why am i doing this
9
9Nigger ducks in a mouses asshole batman!
4What he said
sasssss
0 get
Hi fellows.Is it possible to poison someone by inserting poison in their cigarette?In the tobacco itself or the tip,doesn't matter.What poison is ideal for this?cigarette contamination
6THIS THREAD IS NOW ABOUT POGS
0lol wut..pogs
6Buy loads of chewing tabaccoBoil it down and filter out the tobaccoKeep boiling until the water evaporates and you're left with nicotine gooIf you touch it, it will be absorbed and kill you
3this creates mustard gas do not do it
anybody want to trade some pogs
Blow bubbles into bleachProfit
3Good one mate
There's plenty of poison already in cigarettes
0pogs
ricin. watch breaking bad faggot
8Supposedly it really works if it's concentrated high enough. Not like I've tested that shit
6It depends on a lot of fucking parameters.I'd say, first go for the tip: Ignition is too much of a problem. Then choose whisely your damn toxin. Ricin is a choice, but probably the most difficult toxin to use, if not impossible.However, trying to kill someone with a chemical is not safe, and by this I mean you cannot get away with it easily: If you want to kill a fag, you got a reason. As soon as they find out it's a murder, they'll fuck you up proper.
3Or you could find a better solvant for it's extraction. and isolate it in a more pure way.Purity itself describes concentration, plus it's a damn neurotransmitter, you don't need much.
6Why go through all the effort when thallium is readily available?
4How would they find you?Poisoning is really subtlet
7A good poison sure, but where do you get the originality in what you do ?
4Depending on the toxin and it's effect, whether it is really powerful or not, traces can be found rather easily. It's always bad when they start suspecting it's a murder, because they can find stuff and get right up to your door. It's always better when these kind of scenario doesn't show up. Of course it doesn't mean they'll find you, but you cannot be over paranoid with 'em.
4How can be traces found easily?Can you explain please fellow?I'll appreciate it
0Through analysis of a lot of different sample from the dead body: Urine, hairs, blood and other things. Most of the poisons would be found in here, except for ricin which is a protein that is modified during the poisoning before inducing death. The analysis of blood and all that stuff is mostly done by gas chromatopgraphy and mass spectrometry the same shit you would need to isolate properly a chemical from a complex mix .
5Aha and if they found it was poison how could they find the actual you?
, 
, 
Looks like Caitlyn is keeping her medal
6lol \b\ tries to effect change and gets rekt like usualfucking god i love summer
summerfags can't do shit
6There was a Caitlyn that won a gold medal?
63Did anyone actually think it would happen? I thought it was all keks
6
6It was never for change!!!! It was always for the lulz. The maximum keks.
6getting an award for coming out as a crossdressing faggotI don't want to live on this planet anymore.
8But it wasn't a funny idea.
8people who aren't fucking idiots knew nothing would happen
90fucking idiots
6Oh so now they are keeping her medal because she is a woman. Duh.What a shame.
3Go back to tumblr
6Wow, you sick 4chan assholes have really crossed the lines this time. My friends and I are left speechless by your actions here today.I hope you all know by now that the police are working with the owners of this website to track every single one of you perverted bastards down and bring you to justice!The news articles are already telling the world how you have planned this as a joke.It is beyond me how anyone could wish such hatred upon another human being. SHE HAS BEEN THROUGH ENOUGH YOU ANIMALS! And here you are making fun of her and trying to take her medalsvawayYOu need to be locked inside a body you dont belong in and see how it feels and I hope you all burn in hell for this! You all are just jealous she was able to accomplish more than you could as both a man and a woman I am so angry, you made my girlfriends sick to the stomach and they are still crying.I am personally going to make sure this evil website gets shut down.
i was just doing it to fuck with people. of course nothing would happen, it's change.org we're talking about here.
1Mmmmm that's some good pasta
1Plz no!
6OC INCOMING!
8But some people actually think he should have his medals revoked
Was this attempt just to piss people off or did people genuinely think he/she should lose the medals?Because I can understand pissing people off but the other reason makes zero sense.
43/10, try harder
1It's not a her.
6Very in-depth argument there.10/10 would nominate for award.
4kek
6You mean Bruce?
6lol \b\ tries to effect changeErr, that wasn't the goal, retard.
1I think the majority of 4chan just wanted to troll, that's was my desire, but then once the news ran it, the people who really hate trannies found out and started signing. The signatures on the petition multiplied as soon as the news got upset about it
1Mmm pasta
Nobody is stupid enough to think that s/he would actually have lost the medals.Infact I don't even think people on /b/ wanted him to lose the medals it was just to piss people off.
4that's fucking terrible reddit/10
6Relax man didn't know Bruce was going by Caitlyn now.
, 
Hey female anons, what'd you do if you woke up with tits like these? After getting over how awesome your rack is that is.What'd be the best thing about it? Would it be annoying somehow?
2I'd probably suck the milk out of those suckers while I fingered myself.
Hey /b/ i threw out my childhood today ask me anything
, 
, 
