Kik slut thread, babes who give nudes
and snapchats
genietehkexin Google her name for nudes and send them to her
Bump
Bumping
8fuckitimyoung_ posted in last thread, don't know if anyone made progress because thread 404d pretty quick
7Really
, 
AWOO~
5Awoo~
Awoo~
Awoo~
5Awoo~
5/thread
Awoo~
Awoo~
Awoo~
Awoo~
Awootilde key
5Now, this is a story all about howMy life got flipped-turned upside downAnd I'd like to take a minuteJust sit right thereI'll tell you how I became the prince of a town called Bel AirIn west Philadelphia born and raisedOn the playground was where I spent most of my daysChillin' out maxin' relaxin' all coolAnd all shootin some b-ball outside of the schoolWhen a couple of guys who were up to no goodStarted making trouble in my neighborhoodI got in one little fight and my mom got scaredShe said 'You're movin' with your auntie and uncle in Bel Air'I begged and pleaded with her day after dayBut she packed my suit case and sent me on my wayShe gave me a kiss and then she gave me my ticket.I put my Walkman on and said, 'I might as well kick it'.First class, yo this is badDrinking orange juice out of a champagne glass.Is this what the people of Bel-Air living like?Hmmmmm this might be alright.But wait I hear they're prissy, bourgeois, all thatIs this the type of place that they just send this cool cat?I don't think soI'll see when I get thereI hope they're prepared for the prince of Bel-AirWell, the plane landed and when I came outThere was a dude who looked like a cop standing there with my name outI ain't trying to get arrested yetI just got hereI sprang with the quickness like lightning, disappearedI whistled for a cab and when it came nearThe license plate said fresh and it had dice in the mirrorIf anything I could say that this cab was rareBut I thought 'Nah, forget it' - 'Yo, home to Bel Air'I pulled up to the house about 7 or 8And I yelled to the cabbie 'Yo home smell ya later'I looked at my kingdomI was finally thereTo sit on my throne as the Prince of Bel Air
, 
, 
steam beg thread time.begging for Left 4 dead 2 or csgo
I'll help bump
9thanks based anon
2Yep, there hasn't been a good one lately
4no, /b/ is lacking
09fuck off fags, buy your own shit and stop being cancer
looking for cs:go stuff, starting to play it again
6go back too your trap and fur threads faggot
6I wasn't here to beg. Im here to gift faggot. Go back to reddit
, 
, 
Only post if youre actually down
317 I doubt anybody uses 4chan around here
778
262
540
817
0Vancouver?
813
Roll
1000
210
4Raincouver yes
4Hit up the dennys by the lions gate bridge
0915...any femanons? why ask? lol
773
8Waukeesha area?
480
410
920
414
732
5Racine county
85Close enough
0713 832 Reply nd fwm
251
5Mil town?
7Where are you?
315
215
1AZ
902ain't nobody here in 902 :
1AZ?
314/63618/m
610
0Why do this at 2am on a work night? Save it for Saturday, then we could go to a bar and get a drink. Christ. 717
253
607 lets rock
813
39Milwaukee
479
there's never another, but whatever...801
9Ayy toms river represent!
3agreed, but op is probably NEET
6Im Burlington. How can I get ahold of?
219
281, 346, 713, and 832
1317 here as well
416 bab
91227/m
3what part?
2219 here! What part you from?
609
18 mbi 203kik:ilovesatanandacid
860 I'm That Dudey'all know me. Met up with a few people on here before. blunt rides and hikes. good shit*Uplifting Soundstunes for the stubble that is /b/
7210 bro
219
6LawrenceWhat about you?
0I'm in Arcadia
816/913
8Where 262? And you 21?
785 and 913
509
am I the only person with a 5 digit zip code
7dem trips tho.... must be that Connect-a-cunt time
8Hammond/HessvilleWilliam P if you know me. Haha.
530/916M/21kik:strikeemout
9479Damn about 2 hours away..
1765 here, so I'm close by
250I'll do whatever
5Ayy..813 here
5314 hereWanna ride bikes
0902 PEI here /b/ro. Where ya to?
3OK bruce Jenner
0356
3Ah, a little ways away. Never been there myself
7Burlington. Not yet. Sadly. Why ask?
254 here. 28 male straight. Any central Texas sluts or bros want to chill? I like chubby chicks and country music.
847/815 m27
13317 in the house, what's your names and where we meetin
8its not bruce no mo hohe's got lady parts and such
325lel nobody uses internet here let alone 4chan
44483
3717 you say?
8479Damn where you live/
0It's just a small town nothing to really do but smoke weed and work
9Name's Gavin, from LawrenceNot sure on that exactly, never really done one of these before
0920
3Noblesville myself
9Ah. Kenosha. Cause bar that's why.
uk south east brah
719 fagalamosa str8 m
330
I got hoes.....in different area codes!!!
4Shut up man, I'm bored as fuck and just wanted to see if anybody was in 250
9I don't have a car right now so it'd be hard for me to go far but i'm down to chill for a bit
7Wanna hit up hu hot sometime? Shits the bomb.
2m or f? spokane?
904
3Around the 417
3check'd those dubs Gavinlol if we're gonna be 4chan buddies we gotta share everything. I'm Daniel
234
0Still monitoring? 315 here
372
408
2holy quads
908
5636 here. how about a smoke
5army fag?
911
2Well you upped it to quads so I gottaI made a kik if you wanna use that. Username's raxreal
313
604 dichmond bc
610
6000
8675309
3M, you? tri cities.
937You guys tryna hangout for a bit? my name's Kyle in Arcadia
361 reporting in Where the rest of you queers?
4816 20/f here
315 here
8Nah My dad was though and my moms dad was, younger brother joined the Air Force I work for the railroad out in Temple, live in harked heights. Typical stuck in Killeen type shit
2yaa
503
8No shit, where? watertown here
6haha shit what are you still doing here? want to chill?
413/860 northern ct/southern mass
805 / 818
9Get out i am in Richmond too asl??
5Dont see why not, really anytime in the afternoon is good for me.
9yaa same watertown
3haha fuckin NS, im sorry you're in PEI
15Kyle, Gavin and I were just getting acquainted. throw up your kik
070, holland
608
1540
4Fuck outta here, what are you up to?
420
4920ayyye where you at
9right by thompson park
786/ but I'm in the 919 and 252 right now
1Yeah i hope mine is working. Never really used kik beforeThe username is raxreal if ya didnt catch it before
234 or 330Warren Ohio.
51Another 540 here
1I don't have a phone right now all I got is a shitty mac
7alright well I get off work tomorrow at like 5:00
206
9vancouver??
5Well get right outa town
5How old are you?
7Maybe one is mine. Dunno.
920 neenah here
Any 262 still here?
8M/f how close to Seattle are you?
524 m
8I am guessing you're a guy as well but whatever its pretty rare to see another person from Richmond
2Heyyyy! Same here
120 neenah hereayeeewhere you at
909 where you at
6checked
8Cool, know where we'd meet?
9You a houston fag too?
402
6satan's trips, the rarest of all
954/754
4Man you're all over htown
4713 reporting in
2you 325 as well?
4Where at?
9Ayyy anywhere near ncsu?
602 here
24 m 951 straight
6Shit nigga i might know you, 24 m
8408 too. Wassup? asl
2Well that depends. Do you like to smoke trees?
6?
617
6smoke treeswhat a fucking loser. drugs are for highschoolers and faggots that cant keep a decent job.
No one in 205 yet?
5Im a dude breh
3Your opinion man
1Currently work
2def didnt expect anyone from 315 on here
if anyone wants to join Gavin and I's group chat, it'd be cool to talk to other /b/ facespost your kik if you want
403 here
1905
832/713 here
6Nah, im not into that
0Oh shit
6reppin milwaukee here, just moved from the southside to Tosa
518/m/410 whats good dawg
5checked
5Nope, you go to watertown high?
3naa, moved here last year
6????Winchester
28Come at me faggot brots. Meet me in Camillus and I'll knock both you fools out at the same time.
7Ah. what the fuck brought you to watertown?
702 kik: mattymatuseskype: heatseekers
0707
1Ill throw down, then we'll smoke a fat blunt
9473NW HOUSTON/22/M/STRAIGHT
1army, what elsee
Not sure of the area code. Visiting friends in Glenn's Falls, NY. Down to drink and smoke.
0Burlington asl
0Oh shit...425 here
3Ayy, 785. Salina, you?
4Figured you'd be on base if it was army and youre 24, smoke buds?
320m towson wanna chill?
1op?
225 m.. tosapic related
303/720 19/mBoulder Area
8holy shit that is a harry chest
604/778
9Same, m/19got kik, if so, username?
7M/F? Age?Sure, I need to get in shape
8its the source of my power
5naa to much testing
1My nigga
1too much testingthat's probably how you ended up in the army anyways eh
808, oahu
423 m 303/720 east boulder countyWhat do you do for fun?
209
907 anchorage
5/r/stlouisbiking
808
1Yeah I figured, Ive smoked with a few gi's so you never know. you loving the watertown life, just the shit right?
94732 monmouth county wooo!!! Manalapan here
0Rock climbing mostly, you?
931 reporting in
1i like it man, not bad at all
519
7Used to be 860, now far away, sorry bro.
920
8not sure whatcha mean... lots of tests in college ya
760
8Yeah whats up?
7I do a lot of fishing, camping, road biking and generally anything outdoorsy. Have done a fair share of climbing here and there around the flat irons and eldo but never really got into it
510!!!! m/19
6too dumb for any tests beyond color inside the linesjoin armyend up doing more tests for drugs this timehow can i escape the tests?!
9473281, 346, 713, 832one of these...probably...28/m/houston/straightkik: zhoste
1Its not a bad spot, is what you make it. nothing really to do besides sports when theyre playing and boozing. so anyway what are we doing here? coffee/booze/fuck or drive to camillus and whoop 1's ass
9Fuck yeah where at? Age? M/F?
1ayyyyy
0oh now i get it
4281 NW Houston 19/M reporting in
7im mostly just spy on the russians for fun. no big deal, im just badass, so what right?
435 SW UT 20/m
0By service high you
3805 too, camarillo
6Shut up me too. 23 m oahu haha
33 808s wow lol
812
7wana fuck?
3610 let's go.
Anyone down to house me for a while? Tryna travel by train or bus somewhere in mainland us or canada
204 m23
0626
38Going to sleep but ayyyy
760
408 baylife
8Finally lol, what's up? Monterey Park here, Asian central.
0near service high, only a 5 min drive/10 min walkmail me anon.begone@yahoo.com
714
916
2Same thing down here in Arcadia. Whatsup man?
There's another today breh9145801
2not much just fingering my tight pussy, gosh i can hardly fit 2 fingers in there lol! ;wanna meet up?come to 5th and addison, in the alley behind the pizza place, ill be there in 45 minutes, leave your phone in the car
8im an hour from there.. 925
9You know, typing lol! always gives it away
9Nah dog. I'm not about the mugging life if that's cool with you
3Pompano beach?
0im an hour from there .. in im 510/925
925/510/209/916 im kinda all over the area.
2I'm guessing the attempting murder in back alley bro wasn't you
6i wont mug you unless you insist on not cumming deep in me bareback!lol! ;
5Another 250 here, its a big region tho.Victoria myself.
503
310I'm 19/m looking to meet someone around the same age, chill person looking for another down to earth person,
6sucks dude. Im a 23/m and the only person on here in my area is trying to get me to go into a back alley and mug me.
661
845
, 
, 
, 
, 
hey /b/ im getting a dildo im bi-curious and i've never had anything in my as, other than my fingerstip? stories?
1shameless self bump
fag
what kind of dildo?
im pretty exited actually
1im actually just going to spencer's to see
1i kind of want a jelly one :3
3Jelly huh? That makes me a bit curious xD i got a smaller one from bad dragon myself
, 
, 
Inside of this thread we pretend we are 7th gradersyou guys wanna ride bikes?
, 
, 
, 
Our earth is only 4 billion years old in a universe that is 14 billion years old. What could a species learn, create, and do that has a 2 or 3 billion year head start on us? what about 10?
They've probably perfected interdimensional travelThey probably left us behind a long time ago
3C'MON, WE'RE LEAVING HUMANITY BEHIND, C'MON FOUR SCOOPS
3It's possible that such a species exists but they are so advanced that they are completely undetectable by human means.
3They don't exist. After learning all the secrets of the universe they probably got bored and killed themselves.
ayy lmao
3Considering that making it this far in time without meeting our own demise yet is extraordinary I would say that any other species that was before us are most likely to not have made it.We don't know all the dangers our universe has that can cause our extinction and surely we will find out why there are no other lifeforms other then us in space soon enough.
00I know it's only my word, and you have no idea who I am, but I have seen them.My first experience was when I was 7, when visiting family in Pennsylvania. Since then, there have been 5 experiences, with one happening 6 years ago when I was 22, in the same area that I experienced when I was 7.They are strange... they think entirely different than us.
3700you all just said they isnt anything out there.lets just say there is, yes? since the universe is infinite, then there has to be some civilization out there who has made it for 14billion light years
0do you think theres a reason youve had these 5 experiences?
1Are you talking about actual aliens or UFO's?
0C'mon, you can do better than that. Tell us a tale.
0can confirm, i too have been visited. Once, 5 years ago, when i was 19, in a field in Missouri. They are....quite different.
1Top kek
1Lightyears are a unit of distance.And it took time for the universe to become what is most likely "habitable". The big bang didn't immediately form stars and galaxies and blackholes. Those developed over time.
6I've asked myself this question, and several other close friends agree with my hypotheses.I was injured at a young age and somehow survived being hit by a car going 60 MPH while I was riding my bike. Maybe they are interested in my survival.When I was 21, I had an official IQ test performed, which was required for college funding. I scored a 155 and was offered to be a part of the Mensa Society, but declined. I don't believe IQ tests are an accurate measure of intelligence, and I don't know how an alien species would be able to deduce a human's IQ without the same sort of testing, but maybe there is a correlation between this and them visiting.
0Do you suppose they communicate to us via Electromagnetism?
1aliens u dipshit. didnt you the the picture of an alien? or do you just wanna argue about the difference between aliens and ufos?
9You're either a lying or mentally ill
The evidence points to the hard fact that we won't make it that long. The only life forms that can survive billions of years are simple maybe even single celled. The evidence is all around us on our planet.
8You probably had a bout of night terrors. People hallucinate fairly frequently. We're actually really bad at remembering events properly, we pattern match things into existence, and our brain handwaves a lot of shit away. Eye witness is shit. Sorry bud.
9so you think its because you are really smart?
9I don't believe IQ tests are an accurate measure of intelligenceIf you were actually intelligent, you'd rely on actual research instead of believing whatever you wanted. IQ really doesn't adequately measure anything at all and that's fact.
3He's not necessarily either.The idea that humans are the only sentient life in the universe, or even in this galaxy, is completely unlikely and foolish to believe by any logical means.I want to get off this rock, sooner or later, and get to meet them.If they don't want me around, I'll go meet some different ones... just keep going until I've made a friend. :
5This guy beat me to my corrections.It's not impossible that there's a sentient species out there far more advanced than us because they've had a huge head start though who says we don't have the head start? And who says the head start means that species is *more* advanced?, but it's highly unlikely that any life form in so far as what it mean to look more like "life as we know it" could exist before the universe was even habitable. So OP, your question of 2-3 billion years head start is far more likely than the 10 billion year head start.
1I'm not sure if I'm really smart, but that's what I've been told by others. These two things are the only things I could come up with as to reasons why they would visit me over others.
9The odds may be stacked against us, but it is possible for complex lifeforms to survive for millions, if not billions, of years. The dinosaurs ruled this planet for roughly 140 million years. For a species that creates civilization this is plenty of time to become spacefaring and expand - thus avoiding the threat of extinction from a planetary catastrophy.
3From our long equation theory about how many other advanced civilizations there should be in the universe which produces ~900, there exists this factor:an average society lasts 60,000 yearsUsually by then they either kill eachother via advanced weaponry like we're about to or some sort of catastrophic event like a meteor kills them assuming their technology can't repel such an event.If they haven't died yet? It's infeasible. Look what humans have done within the last 30 years and compare that with what they've done in the last 3000 years. Then use that scale for the next 3 billion years.Literally inconceivable
1you keep talking about probility in an infinite system.why cant people just use their imaginations and answer the damn question.fuckin make up some badass aliens and shit guys comon. fuck.
3There would not be any that are 10 billion years old, things take time to form stars and planets after the Big Bang
8I do rely on research, and I don't believe whatever I want to. When it comes to my own experiences, and the inability to put on my empirical hat any time something strange happens, all I can say is what I saw and felt.
7Indeed, the Drake equation does assume that every technologically advanced civilization is inherently human like. But his is not neccessarily so. It is built on human perspective, but even though humans seem to enjoy killing eachother does not mean that every intelligent species in the universe function in the same way. Our society is not the base model by which all societies imaginable function.We can imagine hive-mind species with advanced cultures that work together towards a common goal for instance.
5yeah dude ive been told i was smart my whole life too, but it turns out i just have a good memory, so school was always really easy without trying. doesn't necessarily mean i'm smart though.i guess it depends on peoples feelings about the word smart.what is being "smart" to you anon?
doubt intelligent life exists seeing as how scientists predict that galaxy colonization is estimated to be possible in 100 million years.The wholethere are shit loads of solar systems and galaxies and etc etc means one of them must be like Earth!seems like shit when you consider that by that logic there would HAVE to be a civilization up and running several million years after the start of the universe.Meaning they would have a 10 billion year head start, meaning galaxy colonization would HAVE to have been found out by now, yet we have seen ZERO proof of anything that points to their existance.In this case it really seems that the absense of evidence really does point to the evidence of absense.So tl;draliens are going out of their way to not get noticedthey don't exist and Earth like planets aren't very typical
8But it's not infinite. You yourself Gabe it a time span. That is a finite limitation.I suppose it's possible there was life outside of the universe as we know it, even before this particular incarnation of the universe. Look at the dark elves or whatever in Thor 2.My perspective is that of someone living on earth, looking out. Even extrapolating wildly from what little data we have here on earth doesn't yield much possibility for life to exist within planes of molten star stuff. At least not "life" that we can recognize.
7Or, we're so inferior to them that they don't bother with us, like ants are to us
9This is true, but not neccessarily that long.The first stars formed roughly 100 million years after the big bang, and the first galaxies formed about a billion years after the big bang. That leaves about 12 billion years for planets to form, and for life to appear and evolve into intelligent, civilization building, spacefaring species. It seems more likely to me that the universe is teeming with life.
0I read once that they are not emotional creatures. They know about happiness, sadness, rage, etc. but do not know how these feel, instead they feel things that we cannot comprehend, probably aren't even emotions.I'm just disappointed I'll never get to jerk off in front of one as a form of communication about the human condition.
8Or dealing with us may violate THE PRIME DIRECTIVE
9you talk like a fag and your shit is all retarded.
4True. Our society if very contradicting. We're extremely smart yet still use a technique known as "faith". For such an advanced society to still be creating conclusions with no basis makes little sense and is easily the cause of most of our conflicts. If everyone had a multilateral viewpoint instead of a bilateral one, and everyone followed the strict rules of debate, we'd be much farther along.
i loved this game
thought of this theme while tripping out the other day /x/
1Being able to quickly store and recall information is a huge benefit to intelligence.However, I also see intelligence as the ability to see, or form patterns, perhaps that nobody else has and solve problems which do not rely on memory/experience.But intelligent people are often those who are unafraid to ask questions that perhaps make no sense to laymen... often resulting in eureka moments.
4so lets test your real intelligence and figure out if its a possibility that this is the reason youve been visited so many times. what what kind of patterns have you picked up on that you dont think anyone else has seen?
3Alien civilisations have born, evolved and died before us. Just as we shall. You seem to think we'll meet aliens, but it's highly unlikely. At this juncture, we could be the most evolved in the universe for the next billion years. Then it's someone else's turn.
9But why should we assume all life to be earth-like? This does not follow. We have evolved to live on earth, which is why we are the way we are. But there is no reason life couldn't have evolved on other worlds, with different conditions.It also does not follow that advanced alien civilizations would use electromagnetic forms of communication when you consider the fact that is an inherently unreliable form of long-distance communication in space. It is more likely that they would have developed more novel technologies in order to communicate, perhaps by manipulating neutrinoes for instance.Still, the fact that we haven't found them yet is most likely due to the fact that we haven't looked all that hard. How much of the sky do you think we have surveyed? And at which frequencies? It is quite like trying to find a specific needle in the proverbial haystack made of needles, buried in sediment at the bottom of the pacific somewhere.
5believes must be a part of human sanity, because when there is no reason for us to keep in line. We will get corrupted more easy.but I do agree that religion needs an overhaul, discussing the true meaning.
3mfw reading this thread
5it's likely a result of various means of conditioning. i.e. religion, economic/educational/cultural/etc. status, nationalism, etc. furthermore, i am not even sure if even a major cataclysmic event would change this.
2Do you know what partition theory is? Well, I've developed an algorithm that can generate any partition of a number, to infinity as partitions of a number can be infinite with the inclusion of zero.I've actually created two algorithms for this, one is quite slow, the other is fast and capable of generating decimal values thousands of digits long in seconds.Anyways, add 9 to any number and you will find all partitions of a number, so long as their digits equal the original base value when summing them.44+9 = 13, 1+3 = 413 + 9 = 22, 2+2 = 422+9 = 31, 3+1 = 431 + 9 = 40, 4 + 0 = 4Works for any number, and my equation also works with any number base.I have more, but don't feel like sharing. Sorry :
3Considering that if life arose more than once, it probably arose enough times due to the prevalence of organic compounds in the universe to have seeded life on hundreds of billions of worlds, I think either there's nothing to talk about, or there is, and if there is, then what we have are civilizations rising and falling due to nearly infinite variables within and beyond their control, at all different times and for different durations across the universe. Distances being what they are in this universe, it is extremely extremely unlikely that any two would happen to be so evenly matched in timing that they'd be technologically maturing at the same time and rate making contact between them possible, and even exponentially less likely that they'd even happen to find one another given the time required for light to reach each other to enable communications, much less an actual physical visitation.I think it's a pretty safe bet the universe is full of life, and I think it's retarded to think we on our little planet in our little system in our little spiral arm of our little Galaxy in our little galatic neighborhood in our little etc etc etc would learn about it until eons after the fact.
5still saying one belief is better than another.
1Since the universe is infinite, there must be a civilization out there that has made it 14billion light yearsOutstanding.
3I wasn't necessarily directing towards religion, but that is a system of faith. Religion helps greatly in controlling a large amount of any populace, but for us it has done its job and is no longer needed I believe. When there was nothing to look forward to in life, something was created to take that place religion. Now that we are more capable of broadening our advancement, we need to leave faith behind and use a multilateral viewpoint on hot topics. Social issues should be irrelevant at this point but somehow we're fucking up badly.
keep reading about atoms and shit and now I can't stop thinking this is all just a simulation
114 billion years is completely unrealistic, not only does evolution take a long fucking time to end up with something like us. Planets didn't exist/weren't habitable for a long time when the universe came into existence.
The universe is ~14 billions years old.The milky way is 100 000 light years across.This means that if a species left their home planet 200 000 years before we developed the technology to do the same, assuming that they could only travel at half the speed of light, it would take them 0.0002 billion years 200 000 years to travel the full length of the milky way galaxy and reach Earth.Similarly, the nearest galaxy to us is 179000 light years away small magellanic cloud. This would take ~ twice as long to reach us 0.0004 billion years 400 000 years, not accounting for red shift. Moving at half speed of light may have problems traveling between galaxies. Untested.Given that the future destiny of mankind, if uninterrupted, is to explore space and form new colonies where it is able to do so as America is trying to do with Mars already, then it seems sensible that aliens would have reached a similar conclusion. If they are limited by the speed of light and haven't developed anti gravity tech which they probably have- I postulate that their cloaking device is not only their method of travel, but their cloak and force field too then I think we can all agree that 0.0002 billion years is a very small amount of time compared to 14.0 billion years that's only 200 000 years compared to 14 000 000 000 years, a factor of 70 000! It may be large timescale, but it is nothing on a grand cosmological scale.I think we are like bacteria swimming around in the ocean. We have just begun our journey and there are bigger fish out there. There are even greater possibilities beyond what we can perceive. It's all just about living with what we are given.﻿If aliens are here and abducting people, it's because they are studying genetic code, farming beneficial mutations for use in their bioengineering projects/ creating hybrids. Life is one resource that an advanced species cannot easily reproduce, since to replicate something requires a blueprint.
0very interesting. i wonder what it could be used for though? and why wont you share any more?how can we really test your intelligence if you will only share one thing?you should know experiments should be repeatable man.
7Even our own animal species all the way down to insects have emotions. They are a physiological function essential in guiding behavior in place of higher intelligence. It is extremely unlikely that organisms unable to feel emotions at all would survive for very long in any environment. Fucks sake, even trees and plants and ferns and lichens have complex electrochemical responses to danger, nourishment, and mating stimulus that we're just now beginning to understand, much less the fucking nightmarish superorganisms...
3what could a 14billion year old wizard have learned? how about a 100billion year old wizard? deep shit.
0it is extremely extremely unlikelyyeah yeah, more probability. fuck off with the rest of them.
7all the way down to the atom. yes atoms have emotions. fact check: pending
9although, going off of current pop culture i suspect humanity has a feeling that something catastrophic is looming now more than ever judging by the success of the movie san andreas...or i could just be exaggerating its relevance.
3My question is how many times have humans happened throughout the 14 billion years. Surely a few earth and humans must have developed and died by now.
0fact check: pendingu have to define emotions then to have an answer.
Not even with an extra ten billion years, you couldn't find a way to make jet fuel melt steel beams.
3It's useful for the data compression and encryption algorithm I'm working on. I've been able to compress a 1MB ANSI .txt file down to a little over 1KB. There are a few problems, but I'm polishing them out.As for sharing more information, I don't want to compromise my ideas.
0woah dude that is some hardcore science your doing. you must really know what your talking about.
4i know you are, but what am i? gotcha
3Think about like this:What if planets and stars are the original aliens. Those that have existed the beginning of time, and we are their offspring? What if each planet has or did its own offspring. For some planets it could be lifeless materials. For others, an entity that lives another plane like the fourth dimension. We'll see each other everyday but can't tell we're there. Or something so small or large that our naked eyes can't see it and our brains can't grasp its concept.I feel that humans are nothing more than a violent plague. So violent that we destroy everything and everyone around us including ourselves.Food for thought.
4illurminati
3There is a 99% probability that we are living in a computer simulation. In the future super computers will run endless scenerios to analyze all possible outcomes. If you don't believe it, fine, but know that basic laws are consistent with this theory -- laws like gravity, action-reaction processes, ect.
8Its 13.7. The number has been corroborated and honed to finer and finer precision by multiple means of quantification. Before the 1970s, you could still argue that maybe there was a chance it was way off. But now you'd have to have some pretty spectacular evidence that somehow also explains how all the other geological, chemical, particle physics, astronomical, cosmological evidence each gives only the illusion of all pointing to those agesf earth, moon, solar system, and universe.You can still do it, but you'll have a lot more work to do than just say you have a gut feeling that evolution should take longer, based on your experience of... ?
2so how could we possibly test your intelligence then? we need more evidence of patterns youve seen in order to confirm our suspicion.
7I see your point, maybe emotions are universal, whether they are the same or not I'm really open to speculation about and what a fascinating subject. I think some human emotions are so low on the scale, a highly advanced creature's emotional toolset has got to be new intelligent feelings and insights that we could only dream to imagine. I think the human imagination could possibly be some sort of intellectual jackpot in the grand scheme of things. Guess I'll never know. :
What if they could send psychic subtle hints to the entire planet about their existence, for instance a small random thread about a simple thought experiment. Scenes in movies that can be perceived as a message outside of the plot. Synchronicity.
3Ascend into a higher dimension through consciousness that transcends all space and can be considered the unity of all life, access to the pandeistic godlike state. They can be reached and communicated with through intense psychedelic experience: 
9Magnetism is a class of physical phenomena that are mediated by magnetic fields. Electric currents and the magnetic moments of elementary particles give rise to a magnetic field, which acts on other currents and magnetic moments. Every material is influenced to some extent by a magnetic field. The most familiar effect is on permanent magnets, which have persistent magnetic moments caused by ferromagnetism. Most materials do not have permanent moments. Some are attracted to a magnetic field paramagnetism; others are repulsed by a magnetic field diamagnetism; others have a more complex relationship with an applied magnetic field spin glass behavior and antiferromagnetism. Substances that are negligibly affected by magnetic fields are known as non-magnetic substances. These include copper, aluminium, gases, and plastic. Pure oxygen exhibits magnetic properties when cooled to a liquid state.The magnetic state or phase of a material depends on temperature and other variables such as pressure and the applied magnetic field. A material may exhibit more than one form of magnetism as these variables change.
3Build a large virtual reality and put curious sentient species to look answers for.
Communicating via thoughts is possible with a brain implant Mic and wifi
9You're so pathetically synical that you completely forget all the beauty man creates. Architecture, music, the concept of romantic love, food, art...the list is endless really.People like you confuse me.
5Confirmed
, 
, 
, 
, 
do it you stupid faggots
0
0Fuck you nigga I can't solve this so late at night while I'm drunk as shit.
better idea:post shit you enjoyed reading
2 ez
1bruh I ain't got two hours wtf
6Fuckin Albert Einstein here.
4nigga u postin on /b/, you got time to read
0this picture makes me really madfucking fagget op
guise the joke is its impossible
This test is impossible, and the answer is quite simple. A problem which requires to match n objects with other n objects requires n dimensions. e.g. in this case, 3 dimensions are required. If there were 4 items and 4 houses, 4 dimensions would have been necessary, etc. It's that simple.
4Actually, my friend, that's an incorrect answer. The 4x4 case can still be solved in 3 dimensions. This problem is impossible in 2 dimensions, just that. Once you go past that, you have infinite layers of uncrossing lines, which means infinite pairings. a 100x100 could still be doable in 3d
4implying a house has infinite physical points to attach lines to, of course. If we simply talk in theoretical terms, that is correct
2I found the engineer everybody
8kek'd
Faggots, God will smite your all.
, 
, 
So, my ex got a new bf. I'm going to die pretty soon.pic related, Its us
9Help please... I don't know what I want to hear, but I just want to die...
No wonder she left, look at you.
Be sure to write her name in the suicide note.
Post her nudes, faggot.
3I just want to die...you are trying to leave yourself you are so bad,
4Thanks I guess6I don't even need a note. I'm planning on getting smashed and then cut my veins
9IT WAS YOU 2now your apart faggot
9Do you even lift?
You look like richard remerez
9Fuckin a... I'm probably gonna regret doing this but do you have Kik?
9Are you hover handing your gf?no wonder she left you
0Tried, but got bored0nope
Faggot. Bang her mom you cunt. Kill yourself is a faggot act.
9At least you had something, faggot. A lot of us here would like to have had the experience at least once in our lives. Go an hero, you filthy cunt.
damn she is hot. you fucked up.
Mr. Steal Yo Bitch
9Haha, faggot
love those bangs!
They look so happy.
0kek
5Damn, feels. But TFW GF
9haz un livestream tio, convierte en un heroe
He's going to be pounding her pussy if your dead or alive. So wtf
2Well fuckin make one. Unless ur truly committed and gonna kill urself anyway. In which case don't waste my time. I give a shit but I'm not gonna bust my balls for u anon. Not right now at least
9The moment you decide you'll end your life soon is the moment you can do whatever you want without consequences. Rape her and tape it, then give it to /b/. Your legacy will live on forever.
9Sorry for you, she looks nice.Man up though and get over it. There's 3.5 Bln others on God's green earth.
4Trips don't lie
99dude why dont you try tripping before you do it, just for the experience dude. it could help you too man.
5it hurts, feelsfriend. it really hurts sometimes.
She was THE hottest girl I've ever seen. And we were each other first. We lasted 3 years together, but everything went to shit when i got kicked out from college.04/10/11: We first met04/23/11: First Kiss04/30/11: We decide to start our relationship
I count three arms, faggot
7try trippingdis nigga actually predicted the trips.
0he just wants attention anonnote:gf leaving = suicidebegging for help for his hurt feels instead of posting a stream linkin his second reply, he uses the words smashed and "cut my veins"this means he's looking at suicide as some kind of dramatic poetic thing instead of deathattention whore faggot confirm
8No. I know OP and that is his sister. Probably just didn't want to touch her, they don't get along very well.
9Still waiting on that kik anon.
47
1We've all been thru it. Whether its for attention or not. Of course theres a line but he hasn't crossed it in my book
1I'm not looking for attention, I just want to cry
7trips only confirms OP must trip before he an heroes. its your chance to get guidance from whatever god you can create in your mind bro.
9Yeah, I was hot on the trail of THE hottest girl I've ever seen- UNTIL MY DICKHOLE BEST FRIEND GOT HER! And you know what I did? I got the fuck over it. They broke up and are unhappy and now I'm going after an even hotter girl who's actually sort of into me.What I'm saying is that life gets better, faggot. Stop living in the past. It's over. Go do something that makes you happy and you'll forget about her. You'll find someone else.
Post emotions to 4chanyeah....OP's post is a fucking dumpster fire.
0You don't see it as you wanting attention because that has a negative connotation. You don't want to fit into that, so you're in denial that it's for attention. Fuck you special snowflake, we all get dumped sometimes. You'll move on and be happy in 2 weeks, month tops
You can do better, OPI stopped talking to my first and last about 2 years ago. Kinda wish I could talk to her again, but I never will. Oh well. Glad to be in Uni with all the delicious ebony and asian chicks.
0Last time I'm asking anon. U want help, get up and get it. It's a fuckin app for christ sake
Post her nudes... that will make you feel better... believe me
Peru?
7Idc, I posted a lot of bad happenings in my life on /b/. Like, when I was about to get kicked out from school.
Wanting to kill yourself over your favorite pet that you want to also have sex with. Get another pet, OP and stop being a pussy.
5Def not OP, but you can quite easily be wrong.It took me two fucking years to get over my ex wife. And when my parents split it took them both more than five years to get over each other.
0Lol, do you know me?
YO HOLD UP OP. PLEASE READ THIS.noone gives a FUCK about brown people. you shouldnt even be allowed on this shit. fuck off back to your mudshack you dago spic cunt before i shove a taco up your little sisters stank crack
7about to get kicked out of schoolYou can take a flying fuck off a bridge, faggot. A lot of people have been kicked out of school. You aren't fucking special.
1Do you even taco?
9damn dude. i would kill myself too if i lost her.btw, post her info so i can go fuck her now that she is single.
5I'm out
2Do you even even?
2I banged that bitch a couple times
9This nigga's been broken up for an entire year and still hasn't been over it. What city are you from? If she's anywhere nearby, I'll go put it in her ass.
6Okay, different anon here, but marriage is a whole different thing. I know divorce happens a lot in the world these days, but that doesn't diminish the fact that getting married to someone is a pretty huge deal. That's a ton of respect and understanding and love that has to be there, and a divorce is like just burning it all. That's bigger than just breaking up with someone you aren't married to.
8Just leave a note saying it's her fault and she provoked you. Please do this.
9Hey bud, just think. It could be worse.At least he didn't get her pregnant.Can you imagine it OP? The two of them panting heavily as he ejaculates directly into her womb, impregnating her? Resulting in her giving birth to his child nine months later, and raising it?Can you imagine this reality where the girl you loved is beginning a family with another man, as in one who isn't you? And no matter what happens there would be nothing you could do to go back, you'd always know it was over.
9Fuck dude, I was over my divorce after a week. Get a hold of yourself and man up.
FUCK OFF YOU DIRTY SPIC. GO BACK TO THE TACO TRUCK YOU WETBACK CUNT FUCK
45You could be right but just as easily be wrong anons. It's not a black and white thing.If OP wants support though he should turn to his family/friends because /b/ is definitely not the place.
4Nah, marriage adds complications that can actually take your mind off the relationship, like money and property issues. Just breaking up is actually worse.
1Would you like some burritos jefe?
1oh, this nigga
1Imagine this faggot procreating.
3I know :
1Eat shit. I know its you fucking faggot. I'm better than you
5Yeah, you're totally right, anon. People should come to /b/ when they are, like, not suicidal over things. I'll ask /b/ for help when it isn't that huge of a deal and I know it isn't a huge deal in my head.
5Story OP? Greentext why you got kicked the fuck out of school.
YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC YOURE A SPIC
41murderanon is right, he looks like Richard Remerez, except gayer and with a scrunched-up face.
9dont do it op, it'll get better u'll find beter grils out there. feels.jpg
2dubs doesn't lie, OP. Time to get the nuse ready.
8But seriously OP. Can you go through with it please? I want to know that /b/ at least scored one.
Was about to propose, gf says she doesn't love me anymore cya. Month later she calls me up crying anon, no one loves me I'm such a fuck upWeek later she's in a steady relationship, 6 months later married, 6 more months has a baby.Girls do shitty things, get over it. Find another chick, but now you'll know.
5The only way your dick is getting wet from here on, is with your tears. Enjoy the lonely life, loser.
9hoverhand/10
2nicely done /b/ro
7will suggest one last time cuz tripping can change your life dude. it can pull you out of the deepest depression if you do it right. and its a one time thing, you dont have to keep doing it to keep getting happy.you feel like killing yourself because of some insecurities bro. ive been in your position and felt the same way before.
OP don't do it. Someone else will come along to replace her bud.
5Oh, I'm not OP. I'm just saying that you're right. But there was that one guy a year ago who tried to burn himself to death on /b/ in front of a full /b/tard audience. Set up everything for the moment and got people ready for it.
4Why try to save him?
9yay finally a thread where people arent trying to get op to stop from committing suicide please an hero on stream or pics with timestamps of the progression of you cuting
Your girl friend is ugly as shit dude. So get over it. You're ok looking guy. Unfortunately for women all they really have is looks. As a man you can at least try to make a good living and attract women towards you. If you move on, do something good with your life and stop caring about her, she will want you back. All women will want you if you concentrate on yourself instead of them. That is part of becoming a man, realizing that women don't mean shit and there is always another one. Grow the fuck up faggot and be a man. Don't be a pussy bitch by killing yourself
9I really dislike this cop out. You don't need to find better girls, that is virgin shit. You need to tell OP how much better it is to be single, and how much fun and friends he'll have after he gets back on his feet. That's the important part, not this dream of a perfect "waifu" that will come along one day.I mean, none of that shit is true, and he's going to be miserable forever, but it makes you feel better than thinking of another woman.Hell I didn't start feeling better until I got these ideas that I'd have friends and go to parties, and be the cool single guy again. But I'm still "happy" because it could happen, and I know I'm happier single than with her, or thinking of her.
9Oh there are white knights guised as junkies here.
9Where was the picture taken?Where are you from, OP?
5Your girl friend is ugly as shit dude.You say that like you wouldn't give her anal prolapse.You're ok looking guy.You say that like he doesn't look like the kind of guy who would give you anal prolapse.
9kek'd and czech'd
Jesus Christ I feel like a moron for coming back. Last call for that Kik OP. G shit not asking anymore after this
7Peru85Thanks
89Lies!
0seconded
00Faggots
If she ever comes through Bolivia, I'll give her that good anal. I'm talking pink sock!
4I see..The decoration, the inner structure...seemed familiar to me---Well..Only advice i can give. Stop thinking about that and just pretend you have a 8 inch dick. Seriously...Its just 1 woman, jesus christ
Post nudes
5Leaving in 5 mins.
6negro
7You a thirsty nigga.
7anonym00se
9I wouldn't touch his girl friend with my foot. She looks like she carries a disease from eating rats. OP is as good looking as most any other guy. People are ugly in general, dress stupid and are stupid. All I'm saying is OP can find another dumb bitch. He doesn't have to end his life unnaturally
7you gonna be an hero in 5 minutes?
9You look like Jackie Chan with a jewfro. Not sure if anyone's told you that yet.
7cuz every life can be beautiful man.but only if we start caring about everyone.
9Just imagined she never loved you, cry your fucking eyes out get to the point where you're laying in your shower with a knife in your hands hoping the next fucking seconds is your last. When you don't die, you'll see she's made you into a stronger person.
2oh yeah she doesn't look good at all, you must really be a faggot and op knows he blew it and he will never have a girl like that again
8Thanks a lot...
9GTFO my /b/, hippie!
2but what about peace love and unity and happiness bro
3I'm gonna love to you unite my foot with a piece of your ass.close enough
23yea man what about the bigger picture, we are all humans man, we should love each and every member equally. we should love every living thing on its journey through life.
3Then go ahead and stop being a faggot.
2I wouldn't touch his girl friend with my foot.I'd foot-fuck her ass holeShe looks like she carries a disease from eating rats.That's called bubonic plaugue, faggot, and she doesn't have itOP is as good looking as most any other guy.He's a 6/10 if memory of the chart serves correctly. Stupid clothes, doesn't work out, bad haircut, etc.People are ugly in general, dress stupid and are stupid.kek implying you know how to dresskill yourself, faggot. Maybe if you left your mom's attic and talked to people, you'd figure out that people are actually enjoyable to talk toAll I'm saying is OP can find another dumb bitch.TrueHe doesn't have to end his life unnaturallyBut we want him to. It's the whole fucking point of /b/ to tell him to. Besides, look at this raging faggot! He's just BEGGING for it!Anyway, in my actual opinion, it'd be better if he did what's good for him and moved on without killing himself, but the choice is ultimately up to him.
7You're not the only person that's loved and lost. Anyone who has knows it's way fucking worse than never having loved at all. Because of the security, the co dependency. Your emotions were coexisting together. When you come out of it you're in fucking shambles the first time it happens, always. But you keep going. And you learn to like the pain, or use it against others.
You look like a miniboss
4they dont sell tortas is peru asshole, only in mexico lier.
9I'm not a faggot. She doesn't look good. I have standards because I fuck girls that wouldn't let you even buy them a free drink at a bar. You probably find anything attractive because you're a loser with nothing going in your life but a sexual attraction to other poor genes you share. I'm sure OP is baiting but it would be sad that some young kid killed himself over some ugly bitch. OP was given a gift from God, freedom
9You look like a fucking cuck.If you work out and aren't a little bitch that slut won't mean anything to you.You won't. You'll mope around and cry thinking of her being reamed by some stiff, long, thick, uncut dick while you diddle your 4", dry jewdick.Get up and do something about it.You won't.
7Alright Im out. OP is an attention seeking faggot. OP become an hero as soon as possible. Record it all. Leave a note saying u want it leaked on here so we can see how Much of a sad bitch you are. Make sure we can see everything.
OP HEREI walked to her on saturday afternoon, when she was at the bus stop. I was with someone else, but i quickly ran to her to talk.We were talking about going out on summer break, for a "last hurrah" and she promised me and herself that she wont be with anyone else.Is she doing this just to make me leave?
4become an hero/n/ewfags
9The amount of effort you put into that reply just shows what kind of basementdwelling neckbeard you are.The stories and information posted here are artistic works of fiction and falsehood.Only a fool would take anything posted here as fact.
2fucking pathetic
9damn man God sure is great isn't he can you say a prayer for us anon plz
2Kill yourself8Mfw I've probably been here longer than you. But hey not like I give a fuck what you think of me you're not riding my dick or paying my bills
9She got a bf dumbo. OP clearly stated this
9Is she date snowman?
9I fuck girls that wouldn't let you even buy them a free drink at a bar.*tip*
2Everyone gets their heart broken by someone OP. Don't be a fag and think killing yourself is going to make her regret not being with you. Don't think your family and everyone else will think "oh we should have appreciated him more". All its going to do is hurt your family and make your girl friend get pounded in the butt by some nigger. Stop being a bitch, go get another girl, and make out with that girl right in front of your girl friend. Then when she comes back to you to talk, fart and burp as loud as you can, and walk away without saying a word
2But hey not like I give a fuck what you think of me you're not riding my dick or paying my billsrepliesbragging about how long you've been here and replying to b8 is basically confirming you are a newfag-a newfag
2OP you're still young, quit being a bitch.plenty more of them out there, and if she's with another man already, one more reason to do the same. Feelings hurt yes, but the second one you find will be better trust me.
2just lift weights and shit until you get over her manyou think your spic ancestors survived to reproduce by an heroing every time some spic chick decided to go after new dick? they must be rolling over in their graves
2Goodnight. That's all I need to see. I hope you die horribly. I hope she brings two huge niggers who beat the newfag piss and shit out of you and fuck her ruthlessly while you watch.
2FL.Surf
7If he's that bad that makes you even worse for her to leave you for him you beta cuck. Either grow some balls or an hero on stream and wire your savings to me while you're at it.
1He can still go fuck her.
2Eat a dick bitch. The only basement I dwell in is your mom's when I go over to her house to pound her in the ass and have her lick my toes
2she brings two huge niggers who beaGet cucked, faggot!
2Honestly, do you think you'll fuck her again doing this?
1I will say a prayer for you and your loved ones every day. God bless you faggot
8You are too good for her, why are you letting her get to you?
2howdareyoutalkaboutmotheriwillfukinwreckuman
8True
9she's fucking Olaf, back there?
8mindlessly stringing /b/speak together with explativescuckCUCKOh, christ. We've got another stray from /pol/2That's the shit I'm talking about. Stop it with the twenty-mile-long response sentences that don't make sense. They scream newfag.
3Sadly, I was with another one, but really, i dont love her at all. Its more like a filler
Man get over her, time will heal this and so will tons of hardcore lesbian porn, now go get your lotion and fort get this whore
3inb4 anonymous shit
7Sorry for fucking your mom noob. Go triforce
0thanks i really need that i have been questioning my faith as of late i just need something, anything- a sign that god is still here watching over me anon if you would type me a prayer i would be most grateful and I would forever be in your debt as an honorable christian
Bro, everybody has a first love. Calm down. You'll be fine. You'll move on, you'll live. It'll be fine.
7fucking /thread
3My god, OP, do you know how much of a selfish piece of shit you sound like? Think about how she feels, man. Think about most of us! You already have another gf and now you're still thinking of your ex? That's it, you need to an hero.
3Yeah, no girl is ever like your first love. Hell I'd probably get back together with my first love even though I haven't talked to her in 8 years, or at least I'd fuck her. But you just move on and find some other girl after some time. What you should do is concentrate on your life without a woman so you can be happy and not a codependent pussy
0I'm not selfish, I wanted us to get back together... tried it for nearly a year
7I had to physically applaud you. That was fuckin good.
1I don't understand suicide mindset with poetic shit. Its probably only caused by chemical imbalance and mental illness, because philosophically uts clear to me if you want to die, then life and death are both empty and interchangeable, so why put in the effort, besides drama and spite and brain damage.0Anon, quit being such a fucking queer. Your're making yourself worthless.
I'm worthless
0i laughed
9Thank you God for blessing this Anon with all the beauty and good that life can provide, and now please God bless him more and more with each passing day. Thank you God for your love and creations, and bless all of your creations for as long as they may live
OP leave b if you want help not killing yourself, go to blahtherapy or some shit. But look you did better than us most of us are gf-less and probably going to stay that way for quite a while. Stop being a little bitch. Cut all contact with her and get pissed off make everything you love turn into everything you hate. You'll be better in a couple of weeks.
0Yes you are. You are selfish because you aren't thinking about the other girl that you're already with. You're selfish because you aren't thinking about what your ex really wants. Go do things for other people instead of mope around only caring about yourself. Volunteer or do some work or something, you prick.
Lmfao what did you expect? For your ex to take a life of celibacy after you broke up? What kind of entitled selfish asshole are you? She has needs like everyone else. Just because you're a beta pussy doesn't mean other people don't deserve to move on and find somebody they like.
7You look like a fucking cuck.stopped reading right thereonly because I'm laughing my ass offperfect timing
, 
be 23mostly shut-in since dropping out of collegefired from job for taking a swing at a coworkerdon't talk any of my old friendsgetting left behind in societyonly $5 grand left to my nameno direction in lifeI need all the advice I can get...
7give me 1 grand @ my paypaljustinhoang01@gmail.com
7getting left behind in societythats why you gotta stay here forever.
at least you got 5 grand. ive got about 5 hundo
7/adv/Other than that, check the SIG sticky and also visit /fit/ for motivationals.Also, if you have no direction, just randomly pick one. Get a part-time job this summer and make new friends. Or become a peanut collector.
Don't know if I can help, but here's another penguin to add to your collection.
7only $5 grand left to my nameIm 21 and I barely have 1 grand. we need better jobs gad danget
7You need Satan in your life.
Would /b/ fuck her
yup
6Only accidentally
I'd cum right in her pussy. Got more pics?
moar
Vigorously.Post more.
6yes if she is legal age,genetic female who still has her vagina,and is in the continental united states of america.I love that type of nose piercing on grills idk why because I hate all other piercings
6my any standard would say yes
8This
nice try, get out or post tits
9How about i fuck you in the ass because you're a fag
her
6She a 19 year old artist from San Diego?
Fighting every urge to go buy a six pack of beer and a pack of cigarettes.Goddamn it, I think I'm developing a drinking problem. What do?Any of you guys drinking tonight?
9Alcoholics Anonymous.And no
sober sucks too..it's pretty much lose lose.I'm going to go kill myself now.
1Have a good time!
0thx xDDDD
1Have fun bro!
7
Fuck it. I'm going to go buy the beer and cigarettes. I have poor impulse control.
I wish I was drinking tonight. What is your drink of choice? Mine's Tequila. I fucking love that shit. Tastes great when you do the salt, shot, and lime routine.
7good man
8cum
9Just took two weeks off drinking and quit dipping. Cracking a bottle of Laphroaig this evening.
I've never been really into drinking until my buddy started stealing booze from local superstores, I did it with him a couple times, now I feel like I can get booze anytime, then again its only usually cheap liquor, but hey I love getting drunk with my buddies anyway.
7great thread, wimp.Quitters never win; and winners never quit. I assume you're right around the 20 mark, otherwise your delusion is fucking sad.
9A six pack won't get ya pissed mate, get more or something stronger.
Iv been having sleeping problems for the last week, I wondered why, then I realized my body was used to falling asleep with a buzz. Each night I'd like to go get two 211's steel reserves at 8% alcohol, always nice to knock em back and watch some science stuff, I never realized it had became a problem. Stopped for a week, then I went and bought a 750mil of bourbon and some 211's I'm ganna get chill as fuck tonight. Pic not related.
8If I drink more then 6-8 beers in a night then I encounter "hangover" feelings the next morning. I feel dehydrated and possibly have a headache.
Bro a six pack is only going to make you want more after you get buzzed, good luck with that late night drive to the gas station, try not to get pulled over. Always get a twelver.
9when you have a day where your sole intention to go out of the house is to get a bottle - not of beer - you are loosing it.If you realize that your week is filled with that you've already lost it.
2I can't have 12 beers in a night without feeling hungover the next morning. 6-8 beers is the perfect amount. You get a buzz without that dehydrated, sickly feeling the next morning.
8Yeah, but then you have six more the next night.
8Its cheaper to buy twelve.
I'm too stoned and dabbed out to drink. Then again, maybe just one wouldn't hurt
5It's cheaper to buy 30 packs at the grocery store instead of messing with convenience stores at all lol.Everything is price gouged at convenience stores.
1I love to drink and smoke yo, they go hand in hand. Cold beer and some nice bud, then play some old N64 games. Oh yeah, the best.
Lose the cigarettes. Beer is exquisite, unlike those cancer sticks
i thought i was an alcoholic. then alcohol stopped feeling good, and i got hangovers.now i only drink to chase the dragon. i kept thinking it just might make me feel wonderful like it did in my early 20s. but it never does. it just makes me sick.
9well.. do you have any reason not to drink?
2Well then I have a problem haha. It's funny, I find myself drinking at night mostly because I'm so bored and since I have trouble falling asleep, drinking helps me mellow out and fall asleep quickly. But its definitely become habit forming.
2this, pic related
3Humans are creatures of habit. Habits only become a problem when they make us sick, unhealthy, unhappy, etc. Half the country habitually drinks coffee, but because its legal, widely available, cheap and mostly harmless it isn't a problem for that half of the country.
6That shit isn't beer
5It's also cheaper to drink on an empty stomach. I quit alcohol about a year ago, after gettin' drunk every night for like 25 years. I smoke so much pot I don't even really get stoned. Even /b/ is sober it seems.
9I'm almost done taking a month off of drinking. It should take about that long for your brain to settle back to normal if you've been drinking daily. From there you can give a crack at moderation again. I plan to just limit myself to no drinking any alcohol more than 2 days in a row. Exception is holiday, or if getting laid is a possibility.
5its a lager fuck face, we aint fancy over here
0this guy!!i played DK64 and Majora's Mask today.I love having a few beers while smoking, they always taste better
6Really dude, natural ice.Thats the shit my broke ass kids drink
One of my go to brews to start an evening off right.
1Are you me? I can't say I've had a completely sober night for over a year now. I figured as long as I only drink at night and before bed, I would be fine. Now I can finish off those 8oz bottles of either whiskey or vodka, without even noticing it. I'll be watching youtube videos or netflix and next thing I know, I'm mellowed out and ready for bed. I also have restless leg syndrome so if I don't drink or smoke, my legs cannot get comfortable.
9Drinking smoking and being high. You're missen out bubba.Its only like 10-12 bucks
9I've put back a few beers and a few shots of whisky. I drink probably 5-6 nights a week on average. I'm sure it will kill me sooner, but it really makes the end of the day that much better for me. At least I don't get in fights or drink and drive.
8What 4 saidThere is such a thing as good lager. Then there's shit lager. Then there's fucking Natty Ice. Might as well be sipping on Red Dog or Hams, ya fuckin' bum.I'll drink shit beer from time to time as well, but I don't pretend it isn't shit beer.
1same issue also with steel reserve. i went up to 2 40's and drunkenly ordering pizza pissing away money and getting ridiculously fat in a short amount of time. i've been combating this for the past month or so. my problem is being sober is kind of boring. however i do find taking 2 caffeine pills with 4 pills of ibuprofen help a bit. it gives me a bit of an "upper" feeling like coffee and removes a bit of the natural inflamation and aches and pains i've had on some days. i cant say its a permanent solution. i think exercising helped me a bit but i cant motivate myself anymore to sweat like a pig at the gym for 60 minutes a day. it just does not interest me like it used to when i used to go every day. i wonder sometimes if anyone found an easier solution to this. some pill or activity or something requiring low amounts of energy to take up my time. i dont like playing video games much anymore, especially not competitive ones. i dont have the concentration to read a book. i just browse sites and hope something catches my interest. i work from home and whenever i feel there is some "down time" between working i immediately want to get drunk. i wake up wanting to get drunk. if the house is quiet and i feel alone i want to get drunk.

0Don't get me wrong, I love smoking and drinking too. But throw dabs into the equation and you're more liable to pass the fuck out than just chill and enjoy the evening. Fuck this shatter is good
6May be cheap, but at 5.9 alcohol it get the job done with few beers.
6If your going to drink shitty beer at least pick good shit tear beer. Pic related, pretty much the best beer you can get for less than 50 cents a can.
9Yay buzzed and forgetting pics.From the fucking mountain streams of the midwest
Fighting every urge to go buy a six pack of beer and a pack of cigarettes.Why fight it? I fucking embrace that shit. Beer and smokes were top priority after I got off work.
6You need to get in touch with nature and with other people. That will help you relax.
4Specially when Its ice cold, I'm playing Pokemon stadium, trying to get that goddamn marsh badge, south park playing in the background shit is hilarious. Why not spend every night like this?
9Yes, a modelo
7I can't do Hamms. I can do Milwaukee's Best but only if I really need to, but not Hamms.
9Alcoholicfag here. I haven't drunk anything in almost a month. I took Xanax pretty heavily the first few days to keep withdrawals under control. I'll be damned but being sober starts feeling pretty good, especially if you start exercising. I think about it a lot but I find shit to distract myself.
Fuck the cigarettes, just buy extra beer.
9No such thing as a drinking problem if you don't let it interfer with life an for the smokes jus don't smoke it's simple
4i dont know what getting in touch with nature means and i have social anxiety. also maybe i do need to "relax" but it feels more like i drink because there is never enough mental stimulation to hold my interest.
9Talking about it makes it worse anon, every study shows this. Avoid at all costs
6I've done the whole drunkenly ordered pizza a few times. One time I had a bit of whiskey and noticed since I ate a decent meal right before it, I wasn't getting drunk at all. Get so bored I decided to take a nyquil pill to help me relax and go to bed early. Apparently the alcohol didn't kick in right away and by the time the nyquil kicked in, I was black out drunk. I asked my roommate if he wanted some pizza. We ordered it like 10 minutes until they closed. Roommate smoke a bit of weed and took a shower. I passed out at this moment. I guess the pizza guy rang the doorbell like 5 times waiting for like ten minutes at the door. Finally roommate opens it up and luckily I already paid with card over the app. Roommate didn't give any tip. Afterward roommate tried to wake me up by kicking my bed and calling my name a few times. I was out cold. I woke up the next morning wondering why there was pizza and bread sticks in the fridge. When my roommate told me all about the night before, I couldn't have been more embarrassed.
2Same guy as before; Dude! I shake my legs at night too, Im beginning to believe that we have ADD and need something to calm our brains at night, ADD meds are expensive and highly addictive, I used to be ne them, getting off them is a bitch, hallucinations and delusions and such. So, yeah I felt that if I just made my day busy and drink in the evening I would be fine. I sorta felt most adults had a few drinks at night. Then I stopped for awhile and the mind came back alive and sleep is impossible.
boulevard wheat... by the 20 pack.
1i came here in the same position deciding whether or not to drink. i cant say talking about it has convinced me not to. if anything it reminds me of how boring being sober is and how everyone else is having a good time or at a minimum at least not as stuck in their own sober head hating the daily grind like me. pic related doing anything sober
5Deprive yourself of artificial stimulation in a natural setting. Walk amongst in some woods without a phone or anything else. I find it helps me relax and put myself at ease and do some good thinking. People offer an interesting, outside perspective that can help shake loose novel thoughts and ideas in our heads. Its good to interact with others to help ground our own identities.I'd suggest psychedelics if you've some experience with them already, but unless you're already interested I don't think people should really mess with such substances. Also, maybe you just need to mix it up. Anything gets boring after a while with no repetition. Maybe try some different stimulation. I usually feel very satisfied after a high quality rave or festival, for instance.
i feel the need to have a beer or two at nights, but i feel that even a very small alocohol buzz greatly impairs mental clarity greatly.. especially since im usually doing mentally intensive tasks. thats what da herb is for
I am comfortable with my drinking. I am battling the cigarettes part. So far going on 1 week.
6Man, I completely understand, I'll stop for a few days and everything is boring, if I could stay sober for a few more days everything would go back to normal and then I'd be like, well I'd like a beer, boom right back to that shit, up all night, sleeping all day, no motivation, shitting yellow water. The lonlyness is the worst part, I'm better off now, I just pop some NyQuil at night when I want to go drink.
0Yeah it sucks bro. I used to take ADD meds but stopped. I work a 7-5 job in a kitchen. It's fast passed and I don't think about smoking a cig or drinking at all while I'm working. It's the moment I get home that I realize I'm still wired and energetic but haven't a healthy way of calming my mind and body down for the night. Sitting playing video games or web searching get me all antsy. I'll finally get to bed about an hour after I lay down. Though it feels like part of me is still awake and I toss and turn frequently. Next thing I know, my alarm goes off and I have to go to work without feeling fully rested.
2Ehhhhhhh..... better make it a 30 rack....
You don't have a drinking problem until you have to start chugging absurd amounts of alcohol to even get a slight buzz. Source a fat guy with a drinking problem. I keep trying but haven't been actually drunk in weeks. Being a fat fuck definitely makes getting drunk a lot more difficult
1Same. just got off work and about to down this bad boy. Tastes like shit but it gives a nice buzz. And its only 24 oz so i dont feel guilty for drinking a whole 6 pac
1That's one thing I've noticed a lot since I've lost a lot of weight. I used to be able to drink consistently all night when I was a fat fuck and I'd only really get trashed by bed time, but goddamn since I dropped that 50 pounds I'm feeling turnt after 5 beers.
0Yeah, I get over tired and your brain is stuck in go mode, and your body is tired, the only thing that ever helped was a muscle relaxer or a few beers.
1Also most nights I need a buzz to be able to sleep before 2 AM. I think I have a problem.
41Good lord I don't know how anyone can do Steel Reserve. Shit gives me the worst gut rot. Its like bum win in a can.
OP here.Back from the store. Sipping on some delicious Coors Light tallboys.
Welp OP this thread made me go make a drink. Red Stag Black Cherry and water on the rocks. Anyone who doesn't do liquor and water needs to up their game.
9Quit that shit, I'm quitting weed after years of smoking it. Alcohol is even worse, at least with weed it's just weird to be awake sober, alcohol you'll be physically addicted and sucking cock for
4No dude, I mean the 211 black can, its 8% alcohol, if you drink 6 of these you will be puking your guts up.
4Man I see friends getting trashed after the amount that I drink and I'm only slightly buzzed. I need to loose some weight and stop drinking for a bit.
5Or ADD. Eve wonder how most folks can just pass out as soon as they lay down? Shit is so unfair.
4Last night I stupidly drank three fingers of whiskey, had a tablespoon of hydrocodone cough syrup, and one small glass of wine. Threw up so much my sides hurt. Might have just a glass of red wine tonight...
7Maybe. It just seems like I can't get to bed at a reasonable time like I used to.
I'm drinking coconut rum mixed with V8 splash
6Oh. I havent seen any black cans here in town. But these are about the same %
9I'll tell you what bro, its all about counting those calories. Eating healthy just means you'll be less hungry as you cut them calories since your food won't be as energy dense, and exercising just means you can eat more in total because you're burning extra calories, but in the end it all comes down to putting in less than you burn. You do that and you WILL lose weight.
To my homies in this thread drinking tonight, most of us aren't alcoholics, we have just grew up poor as fuck and dealt with a lot of bad shit, we don't live in a fucked up fairy tale. We have to embrace reality, and sometimes drown it. Pic related. Cheers mates.
3As we grow older we need less sleep, ever thought about that?
9only 6 beers ? ? ? are you mad ? i drink more than a liter of booze once a week
3You say you have a weight problem? Maybe you have sleep apnea. Losing weight will fix that too. I used to have that shit before I dropped some pounds and I never felt rested after sleeping at night.
2Oh, I can't find these in my town.
If you're going to drink, get something tasty and don't overindulge. Moderation is what it's about.And yes, drinking tonight, godfather.
7I don't like hangovers bro lol.
8Man I'm 21.I feel like I should still be able to sleep like I could a couple years ago
9A glass of gin. And this vape box thing.
6Calling a set of shitty circumstances a disease is ridiculous and one of my big problems with psychology. You can't pathologize a miserable, unhappy life like that and prescribe a bottle of pills as the cure. That's fucked and is only going to cause more problems, and really its looking at the problem from the complete wrong perspective.
5Femanon?
I knew it was a mistake to make that drink. I'm gonna be straight nodding off in like 15
5Ya but getting drunk off $3 is gonna have its consequences. Gotta take the good with the bad
9I got gastritis from drinking to much so I quit
1I didn't say it was a problem, but some people are more privileged and go to sleep with peace of mind. Then some of us live hand to mouth and like to have a few beers at night to stop thinking about it. Your the one making me feel like I have a problem.
7Nope, ever tried amaretto and scotch together? Godly beverage.
You pussy ass bitch I'm almost 40 and I drink every night. What the fuck, I'm fucked up now. Drink you little slut ass bitch. This aint fuckn AA nigga.
8Oh no, I agree 100%. I think it is better to ask why people are drinking themselves to death than to simply say they are sick and look no further at the deeper, structural issues in our society that cause people to act in such a way.
2I've had a Godfather, yes. I do enjoy it. I'm a bartender actually, so I play around with drinks like that often.
OH HAI IM fag and I is alchy. OH HAI FAG!. Bitch I am a tranny and I am so fucked eight now like are you kidding me. I could drinik 4 lokos in a night and still show up to work ,.
0Terrible parents, pulled me out if school because they couldn't afford a car, never got my liscence till I was 22, no job experience, had to be a late bloomer with everything. Now I do hard labor for construction, even though I'd like to be a chef, but then god damn GED fuckheads raised the price of each test to 160$ a peice. There are 7 tests. Iv tried to take the teats twice but had to quit because of price raise each year. So, I work, come home and drown the stress. Still thinking of a way out of this situation.
2Have any recommendations for getting into Islay malt? I'm not used to intense peat but would like to try something. I know Laphroaig and Lagavulin are favorites, should I just try it out?
9I had a beer with dinner, now I'm rolling a joint for the roof before I retire to the couch to play the Last of Us.Moderation is important, OP. Be careful. I've seen a lot of my friends slide down the slope.
8Oban is an alright starting point. Not as intense as some, and not as expensive.
3gastritisWow take a fuckn asprin really ? Can't handle your shit OMG/
3Old guy tip #304: Take 1 chewable antacid before every drink, or once an hour.
7The gastritis is inflammation from drinking hard liqour on an empty stomach, eat something first. Then drink. Problem solved.
Oh Noes guiz I tghink I has problem, I'm so Druuunk . I need AA! When I was your age I drank shrrom tea and moonshine. WTF?
2 am is for the lonely ones, drinking themselves into amnesia from a pain they have not identified.
Guise don't let thread die pls
2OP here.It's only 11 PM where I'm at. I'm still drinking.
5this looks depressing. are you depressed?
4Unhealthiest beer
9My ATF.
8meeps ah laaaagah fufaee picture relatedalso drink a real beer u faggot
3No just bored as all hell
5What do you do while drinking.
9just saying cuz i only drink alone when im depressed
2Why is it the "unhealthiest"? I'm drinking it right now lol.
3My gf was drinking with me, she fell asleep.
9have a nice 6 pack of dead guy ale sitting in fridgebeen there for almost a week nowhaven't had good amount of time to just relax because of finals coming upFeels good to not be an alcoholic :-
1Browse the computer. It's fun to post here on 4chan or watch a movie while drinking.Sometimes when I feel more social I go to bars.
2Try harder faggot
7pic or gtfo
8Here is her leg.
7I like to put on something for background noise whilst I browse 4chan until I find a decent thread.
8Nice, thanks man.
Does anyone else find themselves clinching their teeth when they drink?
3Looks good.More pics of her?
0Yeah I do that. Sometimes I pause before I swallow. I leave the alcohol in my mouth around my tongue and wait a bit before swallowing.I think that I'm usually buzzed when I do that haha.
5Don't want to sound like a fag, but honestly I love her, and have respect. Any other guy on b that post nudes of his sleeping gf is a fucking creep. No offense.
0No I mean, like i will feel some tension in my temples, then realize I'm clenching my jaw...idk.. Anxiety?
7It's from California nnow
0Also, did you know if you hold the alcohol in your mouth and under your tongue you can absorb alcohol sublingualy. It actually works, you can feel it in your eyes first.
0No worries mayne. Glad that you have a woman who you love.Man, I'm getting some bullshit CAPTCHAs tonight. It says to select all the ones with ice cream, I select the one picture with ice cream and then it says that I didn't select enough. Da fuck.Do you guys see any ice cream in any of the other pics?
9I'm taking my first day off drinking in months. Gotta recharge dem organs. First day always sucks then it's not so bad.
2You can do that with just about any substance. Sublingual is usually quicker and harder than through the stomach, but nothing beats boofin' it.
5Mine is always hamburger or fucking birthday cake. One of the choices was a goddamn foot.
6What is boofin'?
0Nah not usually, I only get that bad teeth clenching from speed and acid most of the time. If anything booze helps my muscles relax a bit and unclench
9as always, /b/ro
9Could be from the taste maybe if it's alcohol with a strong taste.Or maybe you're stressed.
1Anal absorption. Whether with moon rocks or booze soaked tampons, its the hardest, quickest way to get fucked up besides the IV. Only for grimy people, though.
0just had that at the bar earlier. nice hipster cigs though, fag.
9Maaaan they don't have these forty's where I live. :/
0Oohh. Well, its more fun to drink it.
4my fucking brother. steel is the best bang for your buck, and it gets a nigga druuunk.
1youre missing out then. i like to throw an airplan bottle of whiskey in the 40 oz of steel and its like a ghetto boiler maker, but one of those and im ready for bed on a normal night.
3Boofin' it is more of an inside joke than anything. I've never done it and definitely wouldn't recommend trying it lol.
6 packdrinking problemsounds fine to meif you're literally spending all of your money on drinking, then you should fix the problem
8this. its not a problem until it adversely affects your every day life. if youre showing up to work drunk or sucking dick for your next bottle of wild irish rose, then its a fucking problem
Well anons?
3alcohol is not a heroin nigga
7vague reference to an inside joke and acting like its something crazy other people cant handle.sounds like a fag to me.
5olololol.
1You probably couldn't handle it, faggot
9If you have the URGE to buy booze, you do have a drinking problem. Well, it is only a drinking PROBLEM if you don't want to be an alcoholic. Welcome to the world of drunkards, brother!
9Ausfag here, been drinking since 9am watching the NBA finals. Its easy to be an alcohol.
Bought some relatively cheap Burnetts and a pack of cigs. Feels good. Don't feel bad OP.
7take a load of this guy, try 3-4 L of 60% vodka a week. Then kiss your liver goodbye
Two shots and a sammich?
9If you're having to resist you're probably already addicted in which case go of one at a time, slowly. Even trying to go of one slowly is hard enough
7Where do you get 60% vodka? Never seen that in MO inb4 everclear, shit's nasty
4what is that? Polish breakfast?just need some sausage on the side
7Live in faggot europe, but its mostly moonshineShit taste, but it does its job. Fuck i want to drink now.
3Lol no, its 3 am here in South Georgia, just a late night bologna and sour cream and onion sammich.Drinking on an empty stomach is the worst for hangovers.
2Well, im quite alcoholic and grown fucking fat after abusing alcohol now for 6 years.I got antabus, but only tried for 2 weeks.Just cant hold myself from alcohol when im free from work, so fucking bored
9Look at all these posts4chan is really going down like the rest of uswe're all going downI'm drinking, anon. I'm 30 years old and I'm beautiful and I'm drinkingSome Mickeys and some Bud Light Lime-A-Ritas nigger.Just had a nice, rich, protracted fight with the wife. She's fucking pissed. Debating on walking to the bar, spending our last $100.Life is shit. Drink.
7He's right you fucking drink faggot.
6Me too, I feel the boring issue stems from the same issue from ADD, your mind over thinks so much that you end up standing around just thinking and never doing anything. The alcohol slows you down, dumbs you down to where you can enjoy shitnlike everyone else. Atleast for me, I can't afford ADD meds so...
4Coors and steel reserve... /b is full of high schoolers and poor college freshmen
I fought that urge tonight OP. And now I fucking regret it. I'm still thinking about getting a disposable ecig for no good reason.
2Dude Steel Reserve is a fine choice. Fine. For ballers on a budget, the nigs get down on that.It's up there with based PBR.
2Yes but if a man's going to drink a proper beer, he needs to splurge on at least a Mississippi Mud.Saw one of those cunts on the captcha.Blew my fucking mind.
6I forget b is full of alcoholic hobos
2Rolling Rock or Mickeys is usually my go-to shit beer. Or Busch Copper Lager
1been diagnosed with ADD/ADHD aswell.. now I know why everyone around me said that "people like me" should stay away from alcoholI drink the cheapest rum I can find so I can buy lots of it
3My town sells alcohol 24/7 and even on Sundays, worst place to live if you have drinking problems.I can wake up at 4 am and go get some beer if I want to.
Slippery slope man. Just know your limits and be smart. Start worrying if you're downing mickeys and 26ers. I drank about 40 ml of hydrocodone earlier and I'm flying with some peach schnapps and dope. Almost at rock bottom, don't let it get as bad as me.
9sounds like paradise bro
9You live in Vegas or something, bro?
9You lucky nucky nigger.How dare you. In my town, they sell 3.2 shit in gas stations and grocery stores/markets.Fucking shit sells for like more than actual beer too. Gigantic fucking bullshit.Plus whats with this capture?Faggots think this is food? Wtf third world shit is going on here?
1It wouldnt suprise me if i have some diagnos, in the beginning alcohol made me feel so much better, this constantly thinking, bored, cant finish doing anything. I feel "normal".Alcohol enhances music, mood, everything.
9Yeah, I'd be fucked. Most of the time I realize I really want a drink, it's when I'm sitting up alone, and I realize it just after 2am which is when the cutoff is here. If I could buy it at 4am I'd be in trouble.
5Well, tweakers do have poor impulse control. Alcohol definitely doesn't help that any. Plus prescription uppers, the sort they give out for ADD and ADHD, is rough on the liver. Once again, alcohol just makes it worse.
5At first I just smoked alooooooot of weed, then something changes and the weed just made me paranoid, so I quit that habit and now drink beers at night to calm the incoming of constant fucking thoughts. My gf can lay down and fall asleep within 3 minutes. I just watch her most night, makes me so jealous. The only thing is, sometimes I think I have a problem then realize I only drink 3 beers a day/night so idk..
9food
9Lol reading these threads always makes me realise how young you fags are and how much of a fucking problem I must have if you consider this luke warm bullshit serious
7when you hit rock bottom al all you can afford is bird seedthe struggle is real man
9Same thing happen to me man.Weed started making me fucking crazy paranoid.Drink more now.
8Definitely an alcoholic...
3No, I live In Valdosta Ga.
8Yeah, it gets worse as an adult, I can't sit and play a video game or read a book, wich is terrible because I have so many hobbies. I just find myself pacing each day, wondering what to do, then I drink a little and he world feels right again, I actually get interestes in TV shows and whatnot.
6Shits happening now.
9ehhhhhhh if I lay down I will stay awake for hours and just think and think about having thoughtsholy shit if I actualy lay down and let my mind run I start to rationalize shit that's not allright and every thing on this planet comes down to sheer desperation and how everyone on this planet is desperately trying to be happy n shitsometimes I don't know if im depressed or just need tochill the fuck down but alcohol sure fixes alot
9Start smoking weed instead
7Need to get laid bro.
6What the fuck happened? Iv read that when your reach 25-28 your brain fully matures and weed just isnt the same. Its kinda fucked up.
8ITS PISS NIGGERPISSSSS
1Shit that sounds fucked, video games arent that bad for me, but books holy shit i get bored just seeing one. Alcohol, weed wouldnt help.How old are you? and how long have you been drinking?
2Ain't it fucked up? Like your brain flipped a switch? Parent always told me I'll grown our of weed. Mfw I understand now.
7I'm 26 now, I had my first drink when I was 16, since then its been sporadic, then just last year, ni started drinking each night at bedtime. I don't know what happened.
2No you're at rock bottom... "almost"kekeke
1So what do you usually drink? And how badly is the drinking?We are almost at the same age, although ive could only hold myself from drinking for more than two weeks, then i start binge for 5-6 days, Rest 1-2 days then continue drinking..
2I straight up feel like I'm going to have a heart attack.Then I wonder what it would actually be like having a heart attack and dying.A lot of motherfuckers have died from heart attacks.
4or when youre high af and at a party and start to realize that music is indeed created by the devil to lure in people to hell, and you start to realize that youme are a chesspiece and are now successfully making sure youre going to hellweed isn't my thing
0Exactly what I do, rest one to two days then binge again, if I have the time. I don't drink hard stuff, used too. But that made me like blood once and that enough to scare you away from it. I usually go to the store around 10pm and get some 4 lokos or some steel reserves, sometimes 2 sometimes 3, I like to make sure I have some for the next day. So I really don't drink so muchm guess I'm lucky I'm sensitive to pills and alcohol. But its become a habit each night to go get a couple brews. I have so many cans saved up that I can easily sell them for 50$ bucks lol.
7Its because I got high by myself for so long that it took me to dark places, if I smoke with friends and stuff I guess I get distracted and have a good time.
3But that made me like blood onced-do I even w-want to know?
3your definitely in the danger zone, and im not talking about that shit 80s song.Thats the thing, the fucking habit. I have a shit job and have to get it through by thinking that i can have 12 beers or 0,7 L of vodka when i get home. I dont have any good suggestions for you except, you really deep inside would like to stop drinking, maybe start antabus.Or just choose your destiny with drinking each day..Skip AA
9Sorry meant puke blood.
9I shit blood sometimes, thats the price of drinking this poison.
5choose your destiny
5Is AA so bad?
7pure shit, but i find it boring to hear these old drunks preaching about some random god that saved them from the evil drink.Its just brainwashing but i guess they like living more than me
5Well honestly I think I'm doing better, I used to buy cheap whiskey each might and drown myself to oblivion, that was years ago, nowvi just get some 211's. Its like, its not getting any worse is what I mean, I don't want to be broke Yeh know?
472I found a way to get around the paranoia because I got it real bad so I only smoke occasionally. 1 oz usually lasts me a year.When alone or if you like doing it in front of people, get blazed out of your mind and have an hour long fap session. Focus entirely on the porn and yankin your dink and it will be 10x better and you won't be thinking about ways you almost died today.
1I also have bad teeth and tooth pain that keep me up at night. The booze numbs it for me. Unfortunately.
4well its a step forward, hold yourself too beer and drop it down to 4-5 times a week and then taking it down further, you dont go out to bars or something?
0I don't want it to fall off.. weed removes my perception of time so when im high I don't know if its 5 minutes or 5 hours
0Lol this is true, but is insanely hard to fap when you phase out and forget what your doing every 5 minutes.
7No, bars are a waste of money, I did the whole bar hoping thing for along time, then got pulled over and almost went to jail, so I just drink at home.
7I go rarely, if I just want to speak my mind and have a room full of people listening and not interrupting me. They do make snarky remarks though, if you say something that goes against their doctrine, or imply that you're not an addict or want to continue using etc. Also at the end of the meeting all these lonely guys approach me wanting to help me and I'm like fuck off.
0M'lady
3Looks like a fatty.
8Same here, was taken once into drunk tank because i got couldnt stand up, didnt know where i was, and police wanted to drive me home but i couldnt answer where i was living, then made a fucking scene at the station that i wanted to kill myself, fucking nigger doctor came to check on me if ive taken drugs..the good life, winter time, no jacket and an hour way from home with bus.Did i stop drinking because of that?Came home and opened up a can.
9go smoke and drink dont be a pussy
07You nigs is great. Great.Going to drink more now.
0Yeeeaah, see I just like to get a buzz at night. I don't get drunk. Remember that family guy episode where he says " we don't have a problem with our drinking Brian, it's just everyone else who does ".
5Oh yeah? Where is your gf?
5LOL that is quite the story.Hell yeah. I'm having a beer right now in your honor.
5middle one
5haha hope it taste guuuuuuuuuud, soon off to shop to buy vodka.Its weekend and im a free bird.
0All of us up at 4am talking about the bad habits of drinking, all the while are drinking. Keks, it's good to be young.
9top kek, what a response
, 
is eating old chicken dangerous? hungry as fuckonly food I got is chicken that went out of date the 18th of maycan't afford anything else until the 8th of juneif I just cook it thoroughly I should be good, right?
2timestamp on old chicken, pl0x!
I wouldn't, but best of luck if you go for it
2how was it stored?
2what conditions was it stored in?
2you could boil it, then fry it up. and add lots of pepper and spices to cover the taste. Better yet, if you have marinade, boil it then let it sit in marinade.
89answer this, nigger!!
2I would smell it carefully both before and after cooking and make a judgement call.
0check'd
89been in my fridge, not frozen.0it looks like a normal chicken tbh9it smells pretty bad3yes I have a lot of spices. no marinade thotfw poor as shit
8This.If frozen it'll be fine. If anything else then do not eat. Cooking will kill bacteria but won't kill any toxins the bacteria have already produced.
0Dem trips tho!
7if it smells bad chuck it away, food poisoning is the last thing you need now, OP
give me your paypal op.. tonights dinner's on me.. cheers
7Where's that timestamp of funky chicken, yo?
7Get rid of it. If you do eat it I look forward to seeing you in an upcoming rekt thread.
Boil it up, boil it for a good hour, dice it then fry it with whatever spices you have. If you have veggies or a soup even ramen that'll work too.
OP here I'll take my chances. put it in the oven at 270, will report back in this thread or another later after eating it.
0don't bake it in the oven!!! You'll funktify the whole house!!!
8That won't denature any toxins already produced by the bacteria.
0evolution in the making...
0270 celsius? You have to be trolling.
9sure it will! A good boil, slice and fry is all it takes.
9ok fuck it, OP clearly had no intention of accepting /b/'s sage wisdom anyway. The best way to eat expired chicken is actually as sashimi, since that way the heat of cooking won't reactivate the dormant bacteria. You do need to eat it all quickly though, otherwise friction from your oesophagus will reanimate the various e.coli and salmonella bacteria infesting your meat.
1This is correct. Dont eat it.
4fucking this!!!
4wouldn't cooking the chicken over 160 degrees in the oven kill all the bacteria after 30-60 minutes? as long as the whole chicken is over that temp
Hey /b/ Figure this isn't your first rodeo. I'm in love with my best friends girlfriend. Bonus points if you can give me helpful advice. I figure it's about time to fucking do something about it. But I don't know if direct confrontation about it is the best.
Tell her you love her and just see where it goes from there.
Kill yourself for being a shit best friend. Mouth breathing Faggot ass neckbeard jew.You're best friend and you want his girlfriend. Pull ya head in fuckwit
Before you do that, do you value your friendship more than you value a chance with this chick?
2best friendDon't be a fucking nigger, nigger.
0I would honestly love to. But what if it ruins things? She's one of the only people I actually care to speak to, if she goes away then I don't know what I'd do.
3I don't have a chance in the world. I just have a lot of feelings for her.
2You just seem like an idiot that has never gotten laid and is now overly attracted to the first girl that showed you a bit of kindness. Pro tip: She's only nice to you because she loves your best friend. She actually thinks you're creepy as fuck and catches you staring at her but doesn't want to hurt your best friend. You don't have a chance. She doesn't like you in the slightest. Go find your own girl. Fucktard.
I knew them both before they knew each other. She doesn't like him all that much, he makes her cry actually. Best friend is loosely termed. I am more friends with her than I am him. I just don't want to be a nigger.
2 Then take 2 advice and stop being a fucking nigger.Now if you felt a real connection than you could've asked this question, but you're just being a DICK
gf nude
5You are a fucking nigger. Friendzoned nigger
6That is fucking disgusting...Sauce?
6I'm trying to click the link but nothing happens
1Papa franku says there ain't no such shit as a friendzone. Those who believe in it are just bitches.
2You don't want to see it.
2kekBut nothing happens
5Says a faggot who is currently friendzoned
5So in other words, you're her emotional tampon and worthless beta orbiter who's on the road to breaking his vow of emotional chastity by making the mistake of sharing your feelings for her.You'll do it, she'll defend him because he makes her actually feel feelings, and yell get the 'lets just be friends' treatment.Stop trying to play Captain Save-A-Hoe for sexual brownie points. She doesn't want you. She just wants to use you when its of convenience to her.
4Says a faggot who has no friends in the first place
52drunken deep talk followed by even more drunken hook up. everything else will sole itself from that point
9You could be correct. Except I don't want to save her. I want her to be happy. I've stuck up for her boyfriend tons of times. Drugs, side-hoes, you name it.I just don't think it's good to let things go unsaid.
5Damn actually... You're good anon...
This won't end well for OP.
2Take the fucking cock out of your ass long enough to find your own girl. For fucks sake. You're fucking pathetic man.
if my best friend breaks up with his girlfriend, am i a nigger for trying to get her?
7end well for OPNo such thing newfag...No such thing...
2You're in love, so give up now - you're fucked.
7butthurt beta victim of a gf takover detected
7You sound like you have some experience Anon
7this. OP YOURE A FAGGOT
7if truly best friend, you must have his permission
7Keks
2You can't -make- her happy. You can only be someone worth being with. If you look like shit and are about as valuable as sand in the Sahara, no one will -want- to be with you, this other chick especially. What the fuck makes -you- better than your friend?Stop focusing on her and focus on you.
73I do have experience. I have experience in finding my own girls to fuck. Rather than having my friend be an icebreaker and trying to slowly weasel my way in like a little bitch. You're supposed to hook your friends up. Not try to steal their pussy behind their back. THAT is the beta move.
5Good point Anon. Except he is near virgin fag, she's his first actually. We talk about how beta he can be behind his back.
2You don't deserve friends.
0you either end up together or dont. but at least this way you got to fuck her
5Weird OP. was in the same situation. ended up fucking my friend his then gf during the summer. a few more times we fucked around over that time he was away but then she said we had to stop so we did...sorta... then it got weird. eventually we ended up not being friends. consider the consequence OP cuz i still think about her and i really honestly would have liked to have the friendship more than this deeper level of fucked shit it became and eventually a burnt bridge. welp glhf if you do hit it ; it is a good fap memory.
4fag
I was in this exact situation. I murdered her Dad and my best friends Mom. So that the ones that were left would fuck each other and then they would care about the kids.
6What if all you have is beta friends anon?
6sounds like you're finding all the wrong girls
3I've thought around this, thanks anon. I figure any sexual interaction that can be regretted will be.
7you're the one who jerked off to it
4i came
Dude if you say anything you're going to lose both your best friend and his girlfriend.This is something you keep to yourself. She's not going to have return feelings for you, so it's best not to say anything. Your best friend is going to be weird around you and will be uncomfortable having you around her at all. Maybe down the road if HE breaks up with HER, it's fair game. If not, this is something you fucking get over. I had to tell my best friend I was in love with her and it took me 3 weeks to get over her when she didn't feel the same way. Now that I'm through it life is fucking great.Please for the love of god, don't be a faggot OP.
Heh
5this
45 Haha how do i find the wrong girls? My girls do just fine. And I don't hang out with beta fucks that can't pick up their own chicks. Because, that's a nigger move. And I don't like to be around niggers.
3Implying not a beta fuckmaking him a beta fuckSo what you're saying is...?
0Yea, what I'll probably end up doing anyway. This relationship isn't going to last forever considering the aforementioned side-hos and drugs.
8What the fuck are you saying? That's the most confusing thing I've ever read. It is completely possible that I, am indeed, not a beta. While, he, completely, is a beta fuck. Not seeing where your confusion is, mate.
, 
, 
, 
Hey /b/ros what was yours favourite movie?
Ask a Subway employee anything.
1why is your food never pic related?
1Why not McDonald's?
4Because I'm fucking bad.5I didn't apply there when I was looking for jobs?
Is the Mayo made out of employees cum?
4Yes, and the light mayo is made of tears.
1State?
1why do you assholes refuse to put more than one slice of cheese on a sub when the customer says he wants a cheese sub? Every different Subway gets fucking defensive about putting more than 3 half-slices of one type of cheese on the sub I order.
1MD
have you ever been sexually assaulted by your boss?
7What length of bread are you speaking of, sir?2No, but he is extremely sexist and racist.
7not OP, I'll put whatever the fuck you want on it, and I'll charge you for ityou want chicken, roast beef, meatballs, and all the cheeses? not a goddamn problem sira lot of my coworkers are cunts about it though so I know where you're coming from
Is your store busy? How many hours do you usually get per week?
1Have you ever made a sandwich for a nigger?
2Well said. If you've got the cash, you get whatever the fuck you want. There's this fucker at my store that gets egg whites and veggie patty on flatbread.5I get like 25 ish hours, it depends, and can change throughout the week. I like to fill for people who are suddenly in need of an off day. We get busy on certain days, we were kinda busy today.9Unfortunately.
5either size. I've diversified a lot to see what happens and the results are that subhue workers get insanely weird about the core concept of a cheese sub.I go to a deli now that would put like 4 pounds of 7 kinds of cheese on my sub if I wanted. I like being able to shit normally though
6Then ask for a veggie instead, with double cheese. It's all about how you word it.
Would OP make me this?
1when you kill yourself, can we watch?
9Classic. I would make it for the keks. That fucker is getting an open face though.7I don't want to go to hell. White Knight.
9Whats the weirdest order youve gotten?
1do you hate the fact that you don't get tips?
1Have you ever anally fisted any of your customers?
1what's the most asshole-ish thing a customer has done to you or a coworker?
5Read above. Egg white with veggie patty. Majority of the veggies toasted. Hes a regular, unique guy.2I get tips. I got like thirteen bucks today, so fuck you.6I've fucked a coworker in the bathroom.6This one black bitch came in. She asked for a seafood. When she saw how much was put on there the correct amount, mind you, she said "I don wan it," and walked the fuck out. We couldn't use the bread for another sandwich because it was already covered in mayo. I was pissed. Also, when a customer "forgets their wallet" and never comes back.
1I also work at Subway. What kind of sandwich do you make on breaks
2Is there any ingredient or meat to avoid?
Where do you work?
have you ever masturbated into somebody's sub?
4I never eat the same sandwich twice in a row. I had a steak with some extra cheese today.9Everything. Just don't eat at subway. If you must, have the meatball, it has a high turnover. I would stay far away from seafood and tuna; they are drowned in mayo, and depending upon how busy the store is, might sit for hours.3No, I'm not an asshole.
1not to get too faggy but are you happy? plans for a new job soon, ever?subway is probably like my top 3 fast food places.
Is it really fresh?
are you peter
Quiznos is better
1Do you enforce the rule where you only give the customer six olives on their sub?Why have you not posted tits?Why are you making this thread again?How much of the food is frozen?
have you ever raped somebody?
7As fresh as McDonalds
I also work at subway and I constantly spit in the ingredients, take a shit and dont wash my hands, and just all and all go out of my way to make things secretly super disgusting.I know you faggots wont believe me, but it's true. I litterally got fired from my last job for licking someone's cheeseburger when I was at mcdonalds
7No.Everything gets shipped in, the only reason it's called fresh is because they're making it for you 'fresh'.
0yeah well fortunately there's no kitchen for autists like you to secretly do that shit in transparency nigga.
I'm not op. But worked there.9Avoid the cucumbers. They mold really easy and they still put then out. That's actually why I quit. When I was ordered to put them out. The soup is....disgusting... You dont want to know. The tuna is made basically frozen tuna, then 50% is mayo. And these americunts still order extra mayo. Disgusting. Dont trust the avacados. The bread up until a few months ago had shoe/yoga mat rubber in it. To make it more fluffy after we unfreeze it.
0LOL you're a dick. When I used to work at taco bell, we once took the tortilla for this stuipid fat bitch who would always come in, and I pulled down my pants and wiped my ass with it. Wish I would have had a dirty ass. That bitch better have loved that taco.
8I want a different job eventually. Can't be making subs the rest of my life. It's not my favorite place to eat at all, but it's free food, so.7No3inb4 femanon0I'm not going to disagree, especially so since I've never eaten there.41. Fuck no, six olives is outrageous; that's one olive per two inches, so about one olive per 2-4 bites. That's a joke.2. Because fuck you3. I'm bored4. Literally all of it. If it's not frozen, it's bagged and preserved.1Nope1This0Are you a sadist?
does subway allow me to make my own sandwiches because i don't trust losers working at subway like you
Not op employee4Every single day, meatball toasted with provolone and toasted onions
Anything you enjoy that customers do besides tip?What happens when you make a sandwich for somebody and they leave after you already made it instead of paying?Also green text the sex in bathroom thing
0Get a load of this snowflake, he's striking back at the man behind his dead end job.
1Is that new Italian melt thing any good?
have you gotten an order from someone you don't like, and in full view of them spit in their sandwich?
13inb4 femanonyou know the drill...im asking pretty please with mayo on top.
1Fuck no, six olives is outrageous; that's one olive per two inches, so about one olive per 2-4 bites. That's a joke.You're damn right it is, it makes me livid to see a new employee or manager at a different location enforce this.I'm trying to remember what isn't frozen, bagged, or preserved, I'm pretty sure there's at least one or two items that are "fresh" I'm forgetting about.
7Anon, I can't stop laughing.
Prove that you're a Subway fag.What's the worst thing that you've witnessed your fellow co-workers doing?What's the nastiest thing that you've ever done to a customer's food?What's your pay like?How's your boss?What shit do you find annoying?[signed: the red mantis]
0Trips spoken
0thats not a thing dude..been to subways in severalparts of the country and they always sprinkle a full handful over the whole sub.you either have an olive-jew running yours or they were low on olives that day
3I can vouch for the extra mayo. I vomit inside. If only customers knew. Apparently, we can no longer score bread, it is against policy as of Jun 8Would make my job easier1Sometimes, they make my job easier. They say thank you, don't take up too much time, know what they want when they come up to the counter. Little things. Green text will be coming shortly, let me type it out first. It's not all that special. I'll write the background first. If we make a sandwich and they leave, we usually keep it and eat it, because why waste it.3I don't like pepperoni or salami, but probably. I'd at least give it one try.2I'm not putting mayo on my tits. I might include a pic after some greentext.0Tomatoes, cucumbers, green peppers, and onions. Thats it.
0Nice trips my love.
1Have you completed all of the subu Courses?
0implying I wouldn't walk out after you've already made a sub that would've got you $5-10 over not giving me a few cents worth of extra olives
5Timestamp to confirm
5Apparently, we can no longer score bread, it is against policy as of Junyeah same here... I don't understand these changes sometimesfucking pissed we had to get rid of the parmesan oregano when we got the whole grain flatbread, I love that fucking bread, herb & cheese cooks differently, it's not the same
52 YouI'm not putting mayo on my tits. I might include a pic after some greentext.oh that was just a play on words. we'd be perfectly happy with just the tits, hold the mayo.
Piss in the vinegar, and then serve it to customers.
what does eating a girl out taste like?
7I work at a slow subway, one asshole was taking a nap on the prep table while I was doing all the closing for cleaning.I don't usually fuck with the food.I get $8.25/hourA shitlord. Sexist and racist. Really cheap as fuck. German/indian son of a bitch.I hate when kids don't know what they want, or change their order halfway through me making it, after it's too late. I hate soccer moms. I hate people who are soft spoken. I hate bratty teen girls. I hate when people get double meat and still want all the fucking veggies.1We don't have ANY formal training honey.6I will timestamp, slow down. I have a lot of fuckers to reply to.
0Olives are Actually one of the most expensive items cost wise. Since they give them out for free and managers get bonuses based on food costs, some stores are olive nazis. I used to Manage 3 stores I fucking hated every minute of it
Someone star the picture, you know the one
will you send us nudes?
0thats not a thing dudeoh, but it isI think most people catch on quickly that it's a bunch of shit to enforce/follow, and just grab a small handful and spread it. But it is policy. 6 olives, 6 more if you ask for more.
6What? You don't do subway university online courses? I've never heard of that. I have managed stores in Texas, kansas and Oklahoma and every single one of my employees pay was based on the amount of courses they had completed. I even had to time those poor fuckers when they made sandwichescaptcha; select all sandwiches. Kek
0I mean come on, faggot.Look at me I'm disgusting and they'll never know it's me lol it's true I'm serious guys I got fired for licking a cheeseburgerThat's real fuckin' neato. Step your game up. If you lick your boss's asshole instead of those cheeseburgers you might get a raise.9Laughter is the best medicine.0Implying I'm a "Sandwich artist"0Nah, it's an actual rule. I've been eating there for six years and I see it in threads plus I've been friends with workers who told me their manager tried to pull that shit. Not every location are Nazis about it though. 5Alright, cool. Has a manager ever tried to make you sell expired veggies?3I wasn't aware of the cost, I just love olives so much, they're like sex in my mouth. Tell me what you hated about managing those stores.
1Is it true that you are only supposed to put 6 olives on a footlong sandwich??
0Probably sour, slightly salty. 2/10 would not eat out.Tits are on the way, I have to move them from phone to PC. Only one pic though.Greentext will be out shortly.Apparently the pic has an "embedded file"
3Yeah nigga. Read the thread.
I fucking love B.M.T's.
5No, we're good about that.3Technically, but I put more.
Your name start with a D?
395oh fuck i was wrong...sorry anon that blows! olives are like the best part.
6Nope.
will you send us nudes?
1Where do you work
Anybody ever try pulling a tom green on you and order a shit ton of veggies?can I get a little more lettuceand some onionand some more lettucemore onion tooI do this shit and then make a salad out of the extra veggies to go with my sandwich because im a poor fuck
0It's actually six for all the veggiesexcluding lettuce and spinach. Only follow that shit when manager is watching intently.
Tits,Tips, and Tuna? OP ain't a dyke today good on yah.
9Can't, pic is embedded apparently.9When they fucking put lettuce ON TOP of all the other veggies so it flies everywhere. Fuck them.Here's the beginning of the green text. I'm bad at this, don't do it often. Please be harsh.was single, working at subwaychubby, 5’7” guy at workmarried to some bitchI get flirtyhe flirts tooone night, tells me to bite his handhe grabs me and we start making out”should be stop?”no”Is this wrong?””It’s wrong, but its fun.”He bites my tits and fingers me for a little whileHe’s never cheated before, I have a lotContinue?
8he's never cheated before, I have a lotKek, why am I not surprised
/threadWAY TOO MANYthis is bait fools
8chubby guytells me to bite his hand wutnot posting titsNo, don't continue. Just stop and delete this thread
8Never ask to continue newfaggot, I don't give a fuck.
8whore.
7I'm a whore, what did you fucking expect?5Kkk, I'm tired anyways. And your opinions don't matter.5That's why it's a question, otherwise I would continue. Someone wanted me to greentext, and so I did.
where do you live?
4Read the thread.
5I don't even know where to begin. I think the worst part was that I couldn't actually manage the store properly because they also base manager pay on "productivity" which is where they base the amount of sandwiches sold on the amount of employees you have on the clock, which means you can't efficiently manage anything because you are constantly doing things to make up for lack of initiative your employees take since they get paid jack shit. Nobody wants to do their job when they're not getting paid for it. They made everyone buy iPads when I was working theRe which would have been fine if I could have done weekly inventory, payroll and other things that were expected of me but the only thing I could do on the $500 iPad was place my biweekly orders, everything else had to be done on the one p.o.s computer that was in the store so you constantly had to stop and restart every time a customer came in. Subway treats their employees like complete dog shit Even up to the managers. I have had several other management jobs and subway completely takes the cake on worst places to manage.
6Continue + tits/timestamp
5For the third time, keeps saying the pic has "embedded files." Gimme a sec
3It has changed somewhat
Do you do meth?
4No. No drugs at all.Greentext time.We continue to do stuff in the backHe would shove his fingers into my mouth to shut me upI moan kinda loudI would bite them as I cameChristmas timeWe were closing early Christmas eveAs we’re about to leave”OP, want to have sex?”he was hesistant before that dayFuckyes.jpgHe takes me into the bathroomAbsolute steamWe’re grinding on each other for a few minutesHe tells me to get on top of himRide that son of a bitchHe didn’t last too longEnds up cumming inside me somewhat, only found this out recentlyThere’s a second ‘cumming’ that happened in march. More? If you guys want more details, let me know. I’m trying not to write a book.
0Sir you are ignorant. Unfortunately it's a thing, olives are the most expensive vegetables we have on the line.
5How tall are you?
Why the FUCK did you get rid of the "melt" sandwich? Fucking bullshit -_-
5Damn hawt. But need tits. Seriously, tits.
8It's to make all of the bread more uniform when it proofs.
WHAT THE FUCK EVER HAPPENED TO THE $5 FOOTLONG? FUCK...$5.25 depresses the shit out of me
7i already admitted i was wrong faggot
0You can still ask for it and they will make it for you, it's just not on the pretty picture menu above your head
Where would you hide a dead body?
7I'm his height.0We didn't get rid of it. It's more like a "hidden" sub now.9Holy tittilations, my phone says the image has an embedded file, probably a fucking virus or something.9$5.50*
5you dirty slut pls die
2I wouldn't hide it. You melt it with acid, all of it.
7But I love it.
how tight are your holes?
9it's $5.25 here...are you even an employee? I just bought one a few days ago...
1Why is your food so shitty? Happy Gilmore made a commercial for this chain back in '97, and you fuckers are just running it into the ground.
2I'm smaller than his wife. I don't know about my asshole, but I think I'm fairly small.7I fucking look up and see $5.50 every damn day, don't fucking tell me I'm not working a job that I know I work five days a week.1Because it's a franchise, run by fucking kikes.
9That's okay baby, I've got a rubber. Feel free to post. Your phone is on the pill, no?
1give me advice on how to pull dirty sluts like you then pls?
7the customers always right, you must be fucking blind then...it's $5.25
29I asked for it today and they're like "well.. We don't have that. But we can do ham and turkey and add bacon to it. We'll charge you a buck fifty more tho, cause fuck you." Paraphrasing, but not by much.
For or against the Subway removal if the plastic from the bread
1what is the most fucking rage inducing order you have ever made that made you want to strangle the customer
4I don't have antivirus on my phone, but I don't want my computer to explode. Let me try again.4He's just gullible. I have a baby face, and I'm 18, so I lure guys in no fucking problem. Confidence really is key, he's confident as shit,0I'm done talking about this.9It's in the fucking computer? They're just too lazy to put it in. I made a Melt salad today, so fuck them.2Plastic shouldn't be in bread, so for?
1Why did KFC turn to shit? They don't have any fuckin incentive to care about quality, it was better when the Colonel was alive.
How many customers remind you very last they want guac on their sandwich? Annoys the fuck out of me...
Who is the best world leader ever and why was it Hitler?
2Any bitch that comes in with an order of seven subs and orders them individually so that we only have one sub on the line at a time. Then she wants me to bag them seperately, with names, because theyre going to "different places." I hate people.1The KFC near me closed down. I cri evry tim.060% of people who get guac, unfortunately6Because hitler did nothing wrong.
Do you like Wendy's fries?
0I LITERALLY JUST PURCHASED ONE THE OTHER DAY FOR 5.25 HOW CAN YOU EXPLAIN THAT?
0Okay waiting on tits. In the meantime, what's next after Subway? Also the flat bread fucking rules, please tell me if there is any reason why I shouldn't be eating that with turkey breast
I think I have a rash on my penis. Will you check it out?
what's your favorite anime?
9$5.25$6.00 in Washingtonmfw people come in and buy $10 subs everyday
1why does it cost more for me to get JUST turkey and bacon than it does for me to get a turkey bacon ranch?for real what is that?
Guys, now my fucking phone is empty on my computer. Fuck my life.2Haven't had them in a while, I think they're ok.4You're probably in another state?1Flat bread rules? Turkey is fine, what are you on about?6Hah, gl with that
6MOTHER FUCKERS IN THIS THREAD IT IS FUCKING $5.25 HERE, FUCK WHAT DOES IT TAKE?
Why don't the people who work at Taco Bell practice personal hygiene?
What's your social security number?
9Turkey bacon ranch is no long a sub at outs. RIP in pepperonis. And it's because subway is stupid.2Because they're dirty spics.
Had some guy order a BLT cold today. Didn't even want his bacon warmed... Why do customers get 10 sauces on their sandwiches?
Do you watch porn at work?
50000000005We're not supposed to serve cold bacon...And because they're fat fucks. A tablespoon of sauce is already 200 calories.
8implying there's a difference between $5.25 and $5.50 for anyone over the age of 13
0im 21, bit of a babyface, 6"2 and got some chub on my bones, confident when i need to be. i dont think im a bad looking guy either. 6.5 inch peniswould u fuck me?
1Why is the double meatball, with double provolone, and double pickles on Italian herb and cheese so fucking good?
4implying youre not a fucking faggot
8Jesus christ, you have to eat it in 30 seconds before it disintegrates
How many STD's do you have?
0You've got a bigger dick than my coworker. Show me a pic of your face, I judge a lot on that. I like cute, younger guys, so maybe. Good on the height though.8Because pickles are jesus.Gentlemen, and a few ladies, my phone is basically locked out from my computer and I can't retrieve the pic. Halp.
What is the meaning of life?
8Because you're a slob who doesn't want his sandwich to close. Fuck anyone who gets double meatball, especially on flat bread.
8Never had one5This.77Flatbread
8Ties and a timestamp
3okay, but can I pay you in dick?because dick.
Do you like Asians?
7I don't own any ties, sorry.
8the secret is in a subway sandwich
Is my computer broken?
8I don't think my boss with appreciate a short register.3Eh.6Seems to be working fine.
Is incest wrong?
0Not at all. If only I had a brother...
What is your favorite anime character?
Can i fly in on 11th Subtember for a deal i will never forget?
Is it true that Subway sandwiches were made from the dead bodies of African child slaves?
8I never implied that, fuckwit.
2Ed from FullMetal Alchemist. Best Anime7Subway's New: Tower Sub! Get two for the price of one!6Oi, I wish.
8you sir are a faggot
6it was yoga mats you pleb not op
8I'm gonna give you a age and please tell me if it grosses you out:36
What is your highest killstreak?
9respect the dubs.
What's your hair color?
2Fuck it, I'm doing an add on. I used to jerk off in the Italian herb and cheese seasoning and the ranch every day because I hated the fact that I had to smile at all of my asshole costumers constantly
5I'm laughing.
9embedded files on a picture that you took on your phone that's probably a virusIf you're going to lie at least make it believable. No wonder you work at subway you dumb cunt. How's it feel knowing that after dumping his load in you that fat ass went home and held somebody at night while there's nobody out there that would want to stay with you after using you like a sex toy
5Yes. 25 is scary for me.8I got a penta twice on LoL.1No thanks. I don't need to finding me.
2Fuck meatballs. I fucking hated making meatball subs. Here's a cringer for all the subway employees. "Foot long meatball flat bread - toasted."
9And you're a fuckwit. At least I can hide inside a hetero relationship. You'll never convince the world you have a working brain.
0Yo OP, how old are you? I'm sporting nineteen years.
What time is it?
4Alright then, cowboy. All I'm saying is that it says "embedded file" when I tried to post it. Now I can't access anything on my phone, wish I knew why. I just got a new phone, so it's slightly different from my old one.8Triggered.518, brotha
0If you're such a slut then why does age matter? Fraud.
0I'm legally blind like that nigger Stevie Wonderbar, disregard this 5
73:28 am EST
3did you say you are autistic too? a normal functioning brain is something you will never have.
Who was the worst customer you ever had?
7Because 1. I'm a whore, not a slut 2. I'm picky
0Come on - 36 ain't bad, I've achieved wizard status. weeps silently
Do you own a vibrator?
8Can you put onion, green pepper and olive oil on before you put that mother fucker in the toaster and let that shit roll and splatter everywhere?
Assistant Manager of a Subway here. OP go for the promotion. I make $11.25 doing nothing else SAs do except help with inventory and enter truck.
Where do you work?
2SAThat can't be for Sandwich ArtistCan it? Is that the actual job title?
1what if I ask you to spit in my sandwiche?what happens then huh?You have to cuz I asked but you'll totally get FIYERRRRD
how many subs have you made?
8lol I know what you mean about meatballs on flatbreadit's not so bad on regular breadPROTIP: cut the bread, open it, and now push down on the top of the bread with your fingers to make a little divot for the meatballs to rest in so they stay in placeit's been a long time since I've had to make one on flatbread though, and you gave me bad memories
41. Same applies.2. Of all the things to be picky about...
2You must be in a seriously high volume store if they have an assistant manager and can hit productivity. What are your sales weekly? I used to hit 20k a week and they never let me have an assistant manager. I bet you have done all of the sub u courses too eh?
6I hate people who are soft spokenAy what's your beef with soft spoken strangers?
are you jewish?
4Yes?1I'm not the one who cleans it up, so sure.5Yes5I'm into younger guys, sorry.pedophiliashota2All we can do is ask for more hours or more money. We have no true managers. I am a manager, but also not. We are a subway anarchy.3I don't have to. I have the ability to refuse.5Hundreds.9I didn't ask to be picky about age asshole.
Not gonna lie OP, you genuinely sound like a waste of air and will probably never amount to anything. I picture you as some out of shape bitch that craves attention because nobody loves her.Probably why you even made this thread
5You suck at protips you use the spoon to push down on the bread, you fucking moron
1 u ever been Molested? you got a real "I been molesterd" vibe
1would it be weird if I went in to take a few pictures of the menu prices?
3Yep. That's their titles at least. 5Nope. Weekly productivity scrapes a 6. Our region is just stupid and somehow they allow me to be an AM when we really don't need one at all.
Who did 9/11?
1I'm into younger guys, sorry.pedophiliashotaWhat about a guy, 6'2, 8"dick, and approaching Gandalf status beard. But 24
1Hey bby I'm an AM and you can work under me all night.
Are you allergic to hamsters?
3Be more interesting next time.
I honestly hope chubbys wife comes into sub way one day and shoots both of you in the head for cheating
2I can't fucking hear what they want on their sandwich.I wan......si....p..Wat?Six...pe..WHAT?Six inch pepperoni...Dammit5No, thank god.0I'm out of shape, but I'm not fat. I crave attention, yes, but that's not why I made the thread. I have nothing better to do, plus, people often get good advice from this thread about subway.7Yes actually, when i was six.9Guess not?8Allah9I don't like beards. Your dick is too big, I'm tiny inside. If you have a man face, probably not.7I'm not allergic to much.1Probably will. She's slightly pyscho, i wouldn't be surprised.
1I didn't ask to be picky about age asshole.Maybe. 30 was my limit even when I was 25, but then women don't tend to age as well as men in general.But whatever, whore. Just figure out your computer issues and show us your tits already.
9implying youre interesting, goodnight autistic faggot
5What the fuck? My productivity had to be at 8 to be able to get my bonus. Fucking bullshit, I'm so glad I don't work there anymore. Although I stOle a ton of shit when I worked there, I quit a year ago and left with 20 boxes of those white towels, they make awesome shop rags
1What do you think of guys your age who appear 12? I know some people who've barely aged since they were 13.
If you could nuke any country, which one would it be?
5I never implied that either, dumbfuck. Sleep well.
Why are my eyes itching?
Quick question OP, does your name start with a 'R'?
8I don't like beards. Well good thing I'm engaged anyways. Just wanted a whore's opinion.
5I luckily escaped the sub slinging. But yeah making a groove on the top really helped. We had a policy after 5pm we wouldn't have meatbals in the hot well. It was often ignored. And we mysteriously "ran out" towards the end of the shift once the hotwell had run out.
OP pls post your scars where you use to self harm
2I emailed myself. One sec, trying that.5Those guys are the best, adorable little fuckers. I just want to baby talk them while I ride them.8North korea?1Nope2At least you're not married like my coworker4Never self harmed. I'm no tumblr princess.HOLY SHIT. EMBEDDED FILE. FUCK ME.
0I do it during the same motion as I open the bread. Wastes no time, full control. I think it would be more awkward with the spoon. But maybe I'll try it next time. You confrontational CUNT
2At least you're not married like my coworkerWouldn't cheat anyways. Only been with one girl, and I'm terrible at picking up cues so I was just curious
2Those guys are the best, adorable little fuckers. I just want to baby talk them while I ride them.Oh, gosh. Wow.I was actually talking about myself, I don't really know other people like that. Sometimes you aren't taken seriously but it feels nice at least someone is interested in guys who look so young.
0That's too bad. Cheating is such a thrill. I've been with seven guys, three virginities so far.
1Let me see.
8I get all the thrill I need by fucking in public.
8Can confirm, cheating feels pretty good.
3Fuck that. I can't stand that. Too stressful for me.
0in need of an off day as in fucked up since morning and the previous night lol
Videos similar to this or as weirddeeper the better
, 
Name or full video needed!Please /b/anysex.com/245196/
stevie shae
, 
, 
Dubs decides what I shall fap to, my body is ready.
black women farting
1
fighting giraffes
trap thread
, 
I want to start the pipe smoking hobby and i'm 18 what are your thoughts /b/?
don't. pipe tobacco tastes like shit and it burns your tounge.
Cancer is a great hobby.
you should just smoke weed bro!
1congratulations, you've been doing it wrong this whole time.
bamping and lurking.
4it's honestly great, that shit smells and tastes fucking dank
4fill it with bud
4Do it, give me your address. I'll send you a fedora and a dried up cumrag
4a few people will say it's cool but the rest will think you're a pretentious loser who's trying to hard on your image
8implying Fedora fags actually smoke anything at allgood job son
Well then pipe smoke faggot......
4well, that second part will fade with age. I think it's worth it.
4Its a good way to smoke, quality pip tobacco makes for a really nice smoke and it takes more work to get together than just smoking a cig you're less likely to over do it.9Nah dude, you need to have a bowl dedicated for cannabis and a pipe dedicated to tobacco.That said, smoking a pipe is extra nice if you smoked a bowl first.
Enjoy the lung cancer, OP.
Nice one less faggot dead from cancer
3smoking pipe tobacco lung cancerHAHAHAHAHA
4This guy gets it
9class="quote"Our results suggest that smoking of European cigars, cigarillos, and pipe tobacco might exert a carcinogenic effect on the lung comparable to that of cigarettesAs I said, enjoy lung cancer OP
4that's the most pretentious bullshit you see on any given college campus.I'll bet you'll start dressing nicer, but still super casual, like a tweed jacket and jeans right?Maybe act like you're so much better than all the other sheep at the college because you smoke your pipe outside while chatting with professors?This is one of the oldest stereotypes from college. It makes you look like the worst type of faggot.
3jaw cancer is waaaay more probable than Lung Cancer with pipe tobacco. If you want to shame, at least do it right.
9Well, when it comes down to it, when compared to the other forms of tobacco usage, I've found and have also heard from others pipe tobacco to be the most pleasant. So if OP wants to use tobacco at all, pipe is the way to go.
Would anyone like to hear how I fucked my sister 4 years ago. Picture unrelated
7Do tell!
fuck no /thread
Only if you include a related picture
1ignore the homosexual he's probably too busy jerking off to traps and other faggots anyway
bump
7
yall some bitches straight bitches
I read this as "how I fucked my 4 year old sister" and was severely disappointed when I double checked.
yes tell us your made up fantasy you goddam neckbeard
, 
Hey /b/I wanna start vaping, but I'm only 14. Any tips?
2Get out
2b&
5Is that a brand of vape? I don't know a lot. Just wanna start.
stop fucking vaping, you're the reason the vape community is under so much fire. fucking minors that try to be cool, kys faggot
Leave,mods.sage. enjoy being banned
Stop being a faggot
0But vaping is cool
2Get the tip from the same person you always do, your father.And you better appreciate it, when you turn 18, he'll be giving you the tip AND the shaft
, 
You now what to do 7 decides
just thinkin bout u qt ;p
, 
The is the face of a Female Pedophile.She's my co-worker53 years oldNo Kids.Divorced Husband 15 or so years ago. after 16 years of MarriageGot caught using Kik couple years ago to pick up 13 year old kids. Said it was a "mistake" and was let go. Has screen shot from the 1990 Lord of the flie movies as her phone background.Says it's her favorite MovieHas Obsession with Justin Bieber. Says he was "better" 5 years ago.
I'd let her rape me. Just sayin.
4Of course you would.
9What's her age range op?
9contact info? kik?
Another pic.
7She claims 25 and up. But after the Kik incident and everything else I'm guess 13...to whatever.
She looks like a white walker. Scary af
0She's off Kik.
9why do you care?Move on man
Can I text her? Seems like my type.
2Where can I fuck her at OP?Also why do you care so much?
8Because.
 tfw you'll never be 13 again to bang a hot crazy milf
2I don't care. I just fingered since you guys are always posting about stuff like thins. Might as well share.
9is that edward snowden in the back?
4Agreed.
Here is her numberCall her if you want734`389`7473
ok only way to revive this shit is to post nudesThis is faggotry
9She has an uncanny resemblance to a friend of mine's mom.
7Too fat.
whats her real kik or name
1op pose as a 13 year old to get this milf to send noods
0tits or gtfo
6this guy
7last number is 7474 not 3
9Lucky fucks
6And if I get caught?
RAP GOD
8dont be such a fucking pussy and just do it
8Introduce yourself as Chris Hanson
8erm, fuck her?
8I'll do it since im 13
At least post more pics of her
5We're proud of you. Go get em buddy
You'll scare her away if you say your 13.
9make it 11, that will do it
, 
Do last two digits in pushupsrerollquit on 0 if you wantgogogo
9bump
9ok lets do this!
900
roolll
Inb4 99
GO
900
roll
9reroll
Lets leave the bed!
rolls
ROLL
roll
push ups
this is a rolla roll for pushupsin the pushups threadof rolling
5doing curls insteadrerollll
1I get one fucking pushup.Fuck your thread.
ill just sit back and watch you pathetic faggots
9Rollin
Roll
1this you?
Not a fit fag but I'm down
mnmoar
roll
99 get
Rolling
9Roll
4all done
roll nigs
k
roll
yolo
cool beans
3reroll
Rol
roll
messages me claiming to be root343sends pic relatedclaims my network has been exploited from the imageVerdict?
2U h4vE been h4Xed m8Only thing left to do now is throw your computer into the trash
Sup fags. I'm a McDonalds worker. Ask me anything.
bamp
pending you're not a lying, shit-posting, colossal faggot......what exactly is it you do there?
Oh perfect what time does breakfast end
How many apple pies should I order at once if I just want them to fill the whole bag?
2Front counter. It involves taking cash, ringing up orders, making coffee, and cleaning up after people. Not bad. Better than the retards in the back.
5Are you a McDonalds worker ?
510:30 am, but we're going to do breakfast all day soon.
5what does it feel like earning minimum wage along with niggers and wetbacks?
2I think like 26?
7At all locations soon or just some?
9Employee.
1Specifically the one I work at. I think it's been made optional everywhere, officially.
5Where are the four cheeseburgers my mom ordered and found that she didn't get when we opened the bag at home? Tell your coworkers they're retarded faggots with no future.
your choachs are dicks?
Do you have a lot of stupid idiots working with you who don't give a fuck about customer service? I have a story but it's not very interesting
2All right, I'll try that. Thanks.
6i mean coach
9Nigger you think they haven't already come to that heartbreaking conclusion? LOL
Where do you work?
9Basically everyone but myself and a few other guys. If you've got a story, tell it, I'm interested. I could contribute with some as well.
5Do you eat the food a lot? What's your favorite thing to get from McDonald's? Should I go eat some right now or Jack in the Box?
5would it be weird if I went in to take a few pictures of the menu prices?
0A small midwestern town in the US.
Do you jackoff on the burgers so that it tastes good?
9Every so often I'll get something. I get a Big Mac, substitute red onions, substitute pickles for bacon, and substitute lettuce for leaf lettuce. Pretty B-. Go with McDonalds and get this shit. They'll fuckin hate you but it'll be so worth it.
5why the fuck did you Jew me out of a mcdouble?
How many stars have you got on your shirt?
2Not till I get home, I can't let them have my secret recipe to the best burger!
9Unfortunately none, I'm at the bottom of the foodchain.
Does it piss you off when you hand people their bags of food and they stand there and open up every single sandwich to make sure you didn't fuck up their order?That drives me nuts and I don't even work in fast food.
5You don't actually believe you deserve $15 an hour for your job do you?If so enjoy your replacement.
3One of the worst things a customer does is that shit. It holds up the line, and they're acting like they can't just get the fuck back in line to get it replaced.
8Holy tittyfucking Christ no I don't. I'm a lazy bastard who probably doesn't even really deserve anything above $8.25.
3Then I respect you...How the fuck old are you anyway? please don't tell me that this job will be the pinical of your accomplishments.
How does It feel knowing you'll never be as good looking as me /b/ Your gfs prolly wanking it to me dirty right now Discuss
5Your mother is more manly than you, faggot.
5dude, you look average, nothing special
, 
More of this please
bump for high interest.
I like this one.
bump
0Goes with that.
Well, till the weirdness kicks up I offer this
bump
Wtf??? Is this a thread for stoners?
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
Big ass asain girls ? Also asain porn webm thread
Bump!
bump
7anyone has sauce on her?
, 
, 
Ask a "professional" theif anything.Note, I am not big-time in fact I live fairly modestly. I just don't want to work a regular job when I can just go out and take what I want for far less effort and time. I feel more free and independent. I also run various scams.I am white.
Most expensive thing you stole?What nearly got you caught?What is the most successful scam?Who are hardest to steal from / scam?
hes just a cs:go trader
If I catch you I will torture you for hours and then feed you to rats.
6Is op a faggot? let my dubs tell
0Most expensive thing you stole?The most valuable thing I've stolen would have to be a particular car. This does not mean that I made money from it, rather it's just the most valuable thing I stoleWhat nearly got you caught?I shoplifted from an auto store and the checkout person asked to look inside my bag. I pretended not to hear her and continued on with my transaction, her manager the loudly stepped in and told me to show her my bag. I had just finished paying and could see security moving to block the exit. I just grabbed the item I brought and ran as fast and as long as I could then hid in a mall bathroom for around an hour.What is the most successful scam?For me, in my country the most regular and reliable scam is social security fraud. Every week free money in my account.Who are hardest to steal from / scam?My attitude towards being a thief is "low hanging fruit". I steal what's easy. Harder things to get away with may mean bigger pay off, but also far more risk. To me, it is not worth it eg, to rob a bank etc, so I just stick to what I know and am comfortable with - taking the easy fruit.
6your favorite things to steal?least?do you only steal things to sell or do you steal things that look neat and you want to use?
0Sounds like bull shit
6Also makes sense you wouldn't know how to spell your profession
8Favourite things to steal are definitely drugs. Prescription, tobacco, alcohol, illegal, I love stealing them all. Also petrol.Least favourite has got to be cars. Shady as fuck and risky to make cash from them. Driving around you're always worried about being pulled over or a camera registering the stolen plates.Pretty much everything valuable I own has been stolen, including this laptop I'm typing on. I also steal/scam to make money/get things. So both.
kill yourself op
whats your favourite drug /b/ and why?mine is ketamine cus i like disconnecting from the world and just being in the presence of my own thoughts
what do you even think about if you're disconnected from the world
5Probably how to score the next fix
5well you can think about the world, its just that the world doesnt interact with you, its almost like having a somewhat objective view in the sense that the outside world doesn't influence your thoughts
last time i did ketamine i got an eardrum infection and all i could hear is running water and i began to praise allah, horoscope, racism, curfews, and jesus
lsd and suboxone. still have yet to do DMT...
1a view on what?
oxycodone, everything ok on it.
, 
this is my ex Ritika Saxena, 5' 3" Indian from Belmont outside of Bostonim going to bed
Gross
Oh and this too
Lost the digits cause was pissed off
I don't think /b/ cares. She's kinda nasty.
Anyone having a downturn in life wanna talk? I'm here for ya
0gf left me bc im a nooob
0now she wont reply to txts or calls; blocked me.
0didnt even explain. just left.
0Thirsty faggot
what lvl are you? 619881220
2130
damn
be 23mostly shut-in since dropping out of collegefired from job for taking a swing at a coworkerdon't talk any of my old friendsgetting left behind in societyonly $5 grand left to my nameno direction in lifeI need all the advice I can get...
9already planned suicide.trust, honesty, and equality were the three major bases of life for me. if i cant live in a world where it exists in my own trusted partner, i dont want to live in the world. ill be gone by the end of the month. im leaving all my usernames and passwords to all my accounts for everything ever to my best friend from elementary school. he's a no-lifing pleb like me, just level 92 not 130.everyother item and piece of clothing will be at my parents' disposal. 4and same as me, except for the money part, and the needing advice part. idont need advice. i suggest you take the same route as me, tbh
18 year old alcoholic here.Started drinking when I was 15Started drinking as in heavily throughout high schoolMeet girl named Kasandra in highschool"The one you'll never forget" fell nothing short of a title for her.Drank with her every weekend. Parents didn't care. They're alcoholics as well.Absolutely head over heals for girl. Sex everyday. Feel like she is really the one.Around 2 months in, I feel distant. Lonely. I feel like I'm not the only one in her life.Install keylogger on her compDay later learn her fb passwordLog into fbSee messages between her exWilling to read this through? Or am I talking to my laptop
0kinda in the middle of a downturn and tryna changing my life. what about everyone else
9keep going; im sure someone will read and help. im sleeping now. goodnight and goodbye. i suppose it is fit for this to be my last 4chan message.
7meant this:000
Anybody here have Kik/ down for a Kik group chat?
918 years oldalcoholicsure thing mate
0what are you like quitting WoW or something?
fuck this thread is bad
918 year old alcoholic hereYou're not an alcoholic, you simply have no self-control. I'm sure you have older alcoholic relatives and enable yourself with "muh addictive family genes"
Alright guys I'm about to KO so here's what I'll do for you guys. I've been thru my fair share of bullshit in life and I'm willing to help you guys. If u truly want the help, email me at help4anons@gmail.com. yes its a throw away. I don't trust /b/. But it'll help me screen out the ones who truly want someone to talk to
5Alright guys I'm heading off to bed. I'll reply to any and all emails in the morning. Good luck out there anons. Hope I can help. No ur not being a fucking bother.
9wooooooooooh alcoholic a 18. i drink pretty much a bottle everyday. I'm 22, and i don't even think im close to being an alcohol.
97Thanks man.Anyways, as suspected, she's planning on meeting with her ex for sex.From what I can see, she wants to be with him, but all he wants is to get laid.Furiously message Kasandra in regards to this, saying its over."Fuck I'm so sorry anon, please meet up with me lets talk about this..."12:00am school night. fuck you."Please..."Can't imagine my life without her. Meet up. Talk for 5 minutes. Bang. Wake up.Morning discussion concludes with me knowing she still likes him, but he's just going through a dry spell.Fuck.Decide to let it go and hope I can win her over.Drink every weekend, into weekdays as well.Get suspended for missing school too muchWhat, but whatever.During suspension, I have way too much time on my hands.Get fucking funny suspicion again.Check her phone while she's asleep
I need this girl x-ray'd please. I'll pay you $5 on paypal if you post your paypal, assuming it's done properly.
Not sure which picture is better for this
7bump for interest
bumping for science
girls on twitch thread?
x-ray homie
2want to see this streamer grills tits plus funny to have the pic
bumpin 4 da homiez
8thanks man
c-cute
0some nice knockers
bump
bump
bump
07What's this sluts twitch name?If it the coleslaw bitch she used to be a camwhore and there are vids floating around
7it's Raihnbowkidz, she's the better looking one
0I'll do it for. 50
bump
2why not
2
4How about $5.
bumperino for x-rayerino
I'm 18 and I push carts at Sam's club. Make $9.50/hr. About $500 to $550 a paycheck. What do you do /b/?
727 here, Software Dev at SanFrancisco, make $125k a year, and somehow im living paycheck to paycheck
I manage a fine-ish dining restaurant. I make 30k per year plus bonuses.
3probably because you spend money like a nigger.
722 here. I do the same thing you do. Im just at Safeway
3
6Sucks Ass doesn't it? Well...at least mine does.
23. Work in a car parts factory. $10.50/hr.
3TipDont live in San Francisco, you get paid 125k because everything costs 5x more than anywhere else. Hemmorage money like nobodies business.
0lol like niggers had any money to spend..
6true, stupid rent is more than 3k, not worth it, downtown is shitty
7$7.75 an hour, I'm a cashier at a small-chain market.I plan on moving to something like Sams club
20. work at k1 speed at least having fun while making $9 an hour.
Line cook - 8.75/hr
6Do it if you're looking for a good career I guess..they changed the minimum wage to 9.50/hr..so there's a boost for you!
3Im used to it. It helps pay for shit I need till I can afford college.
Don't work. Get $500 a month + rent paid.
4I've been used to it too...and I feel you're pain..but I'm joining the navy, so I won't be there for long.
Worked at Jamba Juice for a year at $9/hr..just quit last weekend. Now unemployed.
6If you can, try and find a software job where you can work from home 70-80% of the time and then get a room in the surrounding area, helps cut costs tremendously.AlternativelyChange states, I heard Texas is relatively cheap for how much they pay devs.
19. construction. $30 hr. Thank you prevailing wage
5tfw got internship in Texas over the summertfw getting paid $20/hrliving with relatives, no rent or food costsfeels good man
How far did you get with your education?Serious question
7It's my best bet since my major is art, unless I'm advertising that wont do much lol
43K?Live more modestly and you wont get financially assfucked. Dont live in downtown core or something. Classifieds for a new place, and start saving youre not getting any younger.
2Who is this to?
0welfare niggers
Chem E student. Job already lined up after I graduate next fall.
3because you live in fucking San Francisco... Why the hell would you pick one of the most expensive states and cites in the country to live in?THAT is why you live pay check to pay check
21, NYC, Biglaw Corporate Paralgeal.$24.50/hrfor first 35 hours in the week, $36/hr for any additional overtime. Average week is 50-60 hrs with some crazy weeks, so 60-70k pull a year.Plus perks out the wazoo. Black car service when I leave the office, almost-free steak lunches everyday, free take-out dinner. They also take us to Broadway shows on occasion and throw ridiculously expensive holiday parties ~400k on a night.Altogether, really sweet deal. This is my first job out of college and in 2 years I will save enough for a year of grad school while also partying my ass off. Lucky because I have almost no rent expenses, but live in lower Manhattan where lofts cost several mill.
0paralegal student here, sounds like a good career choice I made. Any advice or tips?
1If you want the big bucks, you need to be at a biglaw firm. Do you know the difference between that and personal injury/small town type firms?
im a carpet cleaner
24CNA$10.75/hourI take care of yo family members an shit.
719no jobspent 17-19 doing drugsfinishing school now with top notch gradesapplying to Financial service jobsgot pre-uni college already paid for meand gunna do social working as a career if i get bored with banking
0Same except 14.40 an hour.
1Biglaw firms have the best pay, generally. Then corporate in-house jobs, then government or small-practice. Aim to be at a firm with hundreds of lawyers. I don't know what to say beyond that though. I majored in economics, so I don't have a para certificate and don't know the hiring process for that. All I can say is that firms of my caliber vault 20 mostly hire new paralegals on two-year contracts from elite universities that they have undergraduate consortiums with. Some also recruit through headhunters if they have an odd spot to fill late in the hiring season, which is mostly right around January. Offers begin June 15, across the board.After 2 years you're expected to go to grad school, which is never a problem.
4You realize how competitive banking is, yeah?
0aside from the involvement with clients and the surface business differences, I can't say I do.
7Yep.Competition is nothing for me thoughSpent 15-17 living on my own and had my own apartment and 2 jobs.Trust, theres a lot of competition when surviving on your own when ageism is a working factor against you
this is a good time to bring up this storyI am 27, I work as IT for a wall street investment firm, you know, the assholes who fucked the economy to make some easy cash? Well I work for one of the big companies I'll keep that out incase this spreads Year was 2006 I got to work, and immediately get called to to ceo's office. His computer went black monitor shut off and he was really impatient. He was being an asshole to me, so I told him that I needed about 30 mins to fix it. He told me to hurry the fuck up and he left with his intern quick to follow. I swapped the vga cable, and I saw a folder of personal finances, and copied them all before he got back. After he came in I acted like it had just turned on, and his anger went mostly away. Fast forward 2 months, I finally decide to look at the files, and most were normal records, but once I got to his bank deposits that's when it got interesting. He was taking millions every month from the company and taking out 100k or so every week in cash from different banks in the area. I decided I was gonna attempt to blackmail him for shitloads of money. My salary was about 47k a year at the time. I went into his office and very quietly told him I had enough of his financial records to get him locked away, so I told him that unless I get a 750k salary and reduced hours Id send all that shit to the feds, looking back on how much they stole, 750k was chump change he agreed without flinching. I handed him the flash drive and that was the end of that. I was getting 750k salary still am, working 4 days a week 7 hour days, and I might still have copies of the files somewhere in my house, if I can find them before we get 404'd I'll black out names and post them here
in the winter a metal finisher, ~17/hr. In the summer I coach kids to sail for $23/hr.
18, i work at a small print shop in mexico33 hrs a week, 500 pesos a weekabout 15 pesos Aprox. 1.20dlls an hourmfw supermarket cart pusher makes more money than I do
3If you're not disabled fuck you
2Haha that'd be cash buddy, do it!Lurking.
Nothing someone be my sugardaddy/momma
7Nuthin'
723 and i cut fish for 12/h
7I'm a corporate development Chef for Kraft foods in New Jersey, USA.Currently developing a sugar free gel stevia is the sweetener that will be filled into a new teething product one of our subsidiaries is developing. Before that I engineered artificial flavors for ice creams. Before that coffee sweeteners.Having extremely heightened senses is a burden, especially flavor/scent. You all smell like shit, especially all your cheap colognes & parfumes.I don't miss working 80hrs a week in an actual kitchen. I prefer my laboratory.
2Hey, since you're blackmailin' him anyways, maybe convince him to send some money to a print shop worker in Mexico?
2The type of firm I work for is known as "Big Law". That basically means any firm with more than a hundred lawyers partners and associates. Within big law, some Firms have 100, some several hundred, some thousands.These firms typically do anything from big deals hundreds of mills to mega deals billions.the hours are plentiful, the perks great, the clientele all top notch.Corporate entities have their own legal teams in-house. The hourly wages would probably be comparable, but the time is much less so overtime pay and perks aren't as much of a factor.I don't know the deal with small and mid firms, but the work is much less oriented towards long-term litigation and contracts and more towards consumer-level things like wills, divorce, etc. this type of practice is smaller and less profitable.
shitty drywall factory 14.20/hr 1k paycheck a week before taxes 760 after
What kind of job can I get over the summer that pays relatively well? As in $12-15/yr.
6Does Safeway where you're at suck as much as the Safeway I'm at?I'm 22 as well and been there for 3 years.I do bookkeeping/booth.
8That old fuck is in jail he's gettin out this year tho, the new ceo has no idea why I get paid more than most of the staff, and why he sees me so little, if I could I would
9You mean per hour?But cities typically have small research firms etc that will pay 12-15 an hour. Also lots of less glamorous Fortune 500 companies offer summer internships for that wage.Or you could do lawn work or something if you don't care about lots of hours/resume building.
Data entry. I get paid for production, not at an hourly rate. But these days I am averaging around 16.50/hr
Cashier at major grocery chain21.13 an hour 43k last year Looking for a new comfy 9-5 M-F
I teach private violin lessons for $60/hr. I win competitions and commissions as a composer a few times a year for $1,000-$5,000.
27 customer service team educator at Whole Foods Market $14.75 to do jack shit all day while I go to school.
24, dispatcher for a logistics company 12.50/ starting next month will be 15. After this gay 90 day shit with loads of benefits :
Dj & producer in total about 3k a week, live in la so it's just okay money
1forgot to add I play gigs like receptions and weddings for $150/hr a few hours every week
2Not him but I've been there for 13 yes, got a degree and I've been trying to gtfo, with this new company taking over I can tell this company will go to shit within the next 10 years
2per hour, yeah.I live near SF so most of what I see is tech-oriented. To find internships, apply straight from company websites?
5Well, thanks anywaysYou are a complete boss, though, sticking it to the man like that. I admire you.
19, contracted cadet. Given the free college, books, and stipends, I'm currently at 19k per year, increasing by about 1k each year of college.
821.13 an hour as a cashier. Okay. Maybe in pesos, buddy.
740, with a Associates Degree.Contract Lawn care/ clean up a with a property mgmt company and have other accounts that are 50 a visit to 75 so if i mow in a hour its 50 hrDrive shuttle wkends for pilots min wage for friends outfit , plus tips, Bouncer at Bar during NFL games near the bar 100 per day.
1Maybe he works at Costco
Laywer~$70k/year
4God damn I feel for you man. Idk if I could do a full 13 years.You must be a topped out checker though yeah? I'm sure it's hard to leave that 21.75/hr.3 years is fucking getting to me.The place is bull shit.What did you get your degree in?
1I'll make 21 or 22 at Albertsons Safeway cashiering when I top out..
1I work in California and I'm in a union, it is possible4
28 and work at a health food/ supplement store as a supervisor. $16.50/hour with full benefits and other perks like discounts and stuff. It's alright. Keeps me fed and drunk, bills are paid.
20, sucking dick for crack
4Yeah tell me about it, I don't know how I've done it. I got a degree in marketing but you're right its hard to find something that I'll be making close to that. I basically want a 9-5 m-f, I'd be willing to go to 17$hr but I'm at the point where it has to be a stable company not some shit where I can't move up. I've done everything I can in store to beef my resume like be a head clerk, work dairy, order, inventory but there's only so many ways to make this shit look important on paper haha
23tard wrangler$10/hr rake in about $1500 every paycheck due to overtime
3Do some have super human retard strength?
Probably moving to the US soon from CanadaWhich states should I avoid, and which are pretty good?Gnerally looking for good gun laws public carry, automatic weapons, no magazine capacity limit and low amounts of libtards of libtards and minorites, and I prefer to live in rural areas. Where should I move?
Don't say I told you, but Montana is the best. As long as you don't choose Missoula. Full of libtards
All of them stay your ass in canada we have enough immigrants leaching off our economy.
Georgia outside of the metropolitan, Alabama, or Texas not Houston
4I'm sorry, I didn't finish your post. Move to Texas big time guns, God, and glory here. Cops pull you over with a gun, ask what kind you have and tell you to have and nice day when they let you go with a warning.
northern cali
0dubfuck, really? oregon is best. open carry and knives up to like 4.5 inches allowed.
4East coast states, west coast states, and Illinois have strict gun laws. Pretty much everywhere else is a gun range.
4Nebraska is what you're looking for then.Except you can't open-carry, it's concealed-carry.
1Fuck Texas.Bunch of self-righteous morons
4Come to Virginia. We have fried chicken.
Montana or North Dakota gets my vote, or Alaska.
4Come to Iowa man. Around Des Moines you get a lot of the good stuff about a big city but you only have to drive 10-20 minutes to get out in the sticks. The people are really friendly, prices are good, business is plentiful, and most of the state is almost entirely devoid of niggers.
3Iowa has open carry and very lax gun restrictions as well. Only big thing I can think of is no rifle hunting, only shotguns, handguns, and bows.
4I would say Austin Texas or Dallas Texas.Everywhere else in Texas has minority problems or Jesus everywhere.
Commonwealth of Kentucky All elselax gun control laws and few libs and loads of rural areas, plus horseracing
4I live in a comfy white neighborhood in Arizona. I hear the gun laws are nice here.
6/thread
Come to colorado. there ain't no minoritys in Colorado springs in we have open gun laws and legalized pot if you like that stuff
65Kentucky is world renowned for its fried chicken
4do not go to ohio, garbage wasteland. i live in IL and its pretty okay, weather is weird at times and there isnt too much to do but its a pretty calm place i think
7Wut?
4Move to BaltimoreBeautiful city with friendly people, has lowest-crime rate, open carry, and not run by minorities.
4Very intellectual city I might add.
, 
, 
You know the rules. You see your name, you sleep.Andy Carey Modesto Frank Nolan Scott Brant Hosea Yong Gabriel Shon Mel Tony Kerry Lawerence Patricia Jean Cristopher Chi Glen Earle Sherwood Calvin Jerald Eusebio Nicholas Tory Edward Salvador Anibal Ethan Grady Shad Robby Reed Weldon Otto Gordon Lemuel Hugo Bradley Rodney Jason Luis Eduardo Edwin Perry Angel Randell Oren Use this site to roll names. Convert to text. Easy shit.IF YOU ROLL YOUR NAME, HERE IS WHAT YOU DO:Final digit:EVEN NUMBER: Goodnight PizzaODD NUMBER: Stay on /b/, the illegal threads will be here soon enough.
Good night mike
Guys I have a sad how do I into not sad?
4Kill self
2That seems counter intuitive
5No more feels=no more hurt
1But then I can't be happy later
5hug?
4you clearly just want attentionbetter off killing yourself
5I'll sperms in your butt
0Hugs don't help much any moreHell even getting laid doesn't do shit
Think very very hard
45
4How vague
8k
Good night /b/
1If you scroll past this faggot on the first page you must type "sleep tight faggot" or nightmares will haunt you in every sleep
5they already do, anon
1goodnight brother
gn champ
nighty night /b/rother
Goodnight !
goodnight, sweet price
1I'm going to kill you in your sleep.
1G'night /b/rother
goodnight.
Inb4 fire
I'm going to sleep 2 /b/ro.
Ain't no niggas on a put the fire out this time OP. I hope you quit smoking.
0Good Night /b/ro
6thankies ▲▲ ▲
why is it red outside
I wish I could sleep.
Goodnight /B/rother
5Immunity cat ftw
8You really need to get out of your parents basement.
goodnight anonI'll be under your bed
1sleep tight, pizza
1G'night.
1That is the neckbeardiest setup ever.
night dude
good prince, sweet knight.i'm going to ccok your scuk
good night xd :
, 
Dubs names my car
9Turdwagon
6 Double 8's & double 16'swinrar
63Enjoy your turdwagon.
30 TurdwagonWhat kind of voodoo is this?
6You missed by one. Check 'em!P.S. TURDWAGON
Jajajajja Turdwagon!!! i pissed myself
My girlfriend just preordered Fallout 4 for me today. Whats the best thing that happened to you today?
My girlfriend didn't preorder Fallout 4 for me today.
Ate some leftover cake, still moist and everything. Oh and I busted a nut early in the morning.
Didn't kill myself
2pre-ordering gamesonce this was a legit way of reserving a copy because a store could run out of boxes but today that's just fucking retarded.
2Got 98% on my French test.. feels good
9
7you're French
2Got a 1000 dollar check from a family friend I don't even know that well for graduation. And I also got my gtx 970 in the mail today.
0thisand fresh PC version are always buggy, and if you wait for patches you dont get the preoder bonusits like they are supporting piracy or something
2you mean you just clicked the preorder button?get it? cos you hand is your gf.
2MFW Fallout 4 preodered a girl friend for me
2dayum buuurned
I re-found this
Spied on the lolis next door while they played in the sprinkler with my new binoculars.
2#rekt
2This is a very retarded thing to do. You'll have to wait until it is shipped. You should buy a digital version on release.
9
3what the fuck are you talking about ? are you retarded ?
2It's the best interracial game of all time.
I slept through most of the day. Best thing that happened today.
2Got invited by the manager of club to come to his club tomorrow. VIP, free drinks , "bitches", etc. Fuckin introverted as fuck I'm sure I'll go, but I'm going to be thinking about how I will act, how I'll dance and what not the entire day. Bittersweet.
Finally was able to left my wife
2I found out that the player character is voiced and his looks aren't customizable. I also found out the game starts a few minutes before the nuclear bombs are coming and you have to escape your house with your wife and kid to your vault. Your wife and kid get locked out the vault and vaporized while you get cyro frozen and wake up in the current year for the game's tutorial that leads you to the minutemen.
0Lucky you. Be me, be an socially awkward, never get invited to anything ever.
9implying you haveYou can only get a girlfriend with master taste in video games.
2Be an socially awkward* I hope that was a joke, because I laughed my ass off.
0free drinksthere, your solution
244oh the summer
2why would you pre order a game thats not even release dated yet
2I got home from work.
5ok fag op
7IT'S THE SHADOW. IT'S THE FUCKING SHADOW. IT HAS TO JUST BE A FUCKING SHADOW.
2Found out my ex girlfriend keeps trying to fuck my best friend
8implying any of that is a bad thing that sounds cool as fuck
You can get the game for 23% off at green man gaming...use this code.23PERC-ENTOFF-48HOURAlso enjoy your voiced non-customizable character who was a soldier in the nuclear war but frozen to wake up in modern times.
0because it's fallout 4faggot
7top fucking kek
9Nope. They are all niggers!
7I'm laughing trying to imagine the sad fuck who actually paused it there, immediately thought cuck, and made this picture.
2
8didn't work, do you have another? tanks.
5you must be a summer fag tbh
2Confirmed going to a convention in a week with a bunch of friends.I'll bring back plenty of cringe for you, /b/ros
7i feel as if the baby is too black
1il get it way before you and im not going buy it for 2 weeks before
Bethesda Fallout games:Somewhat nicely built world mapPopulation of 7 peopleUtterly fucking retarded storyOur character is autistic, cant form sentences longer than 3 words.Absolutely dumb dialoguesNPC as flat as Keira Knightleys chestWorst side quests in history of gamingBut hey, at least i can mass murder ghouls by headshots in VATS?????Profit
5You forgot the niggers. lol
2Is this reddit? nobody gives a fuck what your girlfriend did for you. If you want a fallout 4 thread just say so faggot.
5what are your favorite games?
3Fallout 1 +2Baldurs gate 2
This game is going to be absolute shit.Have to play as some pre-war soldier faggot with set looks and voice.The only player home is your pre-war home that the dog is going through in the trailer.There is one set of power armor in the entire game and you have to do quests to get parts to repair the armor.Its your prewar armor from when you were a soldier.No brotherhood of steel.Every dlc you have to play as another preset uncustomizeable voiced character on the same fucking map.The modding community is dead before it even comes out due to voiced player character. The mods are going to be even worse than the game.
6where did you hear all this shit from?
5LOL reminds me of Rivet City. Place hyped up like a motherfucker all over the game, but when you get to it there are 5 people inside it. 4 of which are shop owners. Many keks were had.
I woke up.
6{citation needed}
2preordered Fallout 4
5not his money so who cares
22015still per-ordering games
preordered fallout 4 for 46 bucks
Talked an ex gf into sending me this.
7not him but the prewar voiced solder in boston thing has been around since 2013 in a leak. everyone thought it was fact the but the leaked screenshot is the same exact guy in the trailer.you play as a soldier who is frozen in a vault and walks up 10 years after fallout 3.
2Knowing my gf is better than yours because she didnt preorder fallout 4 for me.
1taking anything from kotaku seriouslynigga step it up
2 things that will be referenced in Fallout 4LovecraftThe DepartedQuahogdeflate gate
5still believing in summerfriends
8kotaku posting a screenshot of the guy from trailer in 2013says it takes place in boston before we even knew it didcant be taken seriouslyok then
5trips
5Have you read any other article posting on that shithole of a website? The entire website is just clickbate
ESPN revealed one of the new settlements we can visit. It is named Diamond City and its inside the Red Sox baseball park.
Who cares it will be just another Bethesda bullshit game with nothing in common with the awesomeness of Fallout 1 or 2. God damn i dont remember smiling even once while playing Fallout 3 or NV. Fallout 2 had moments that made me laugh my ass off.
2class="quote"Any Bethesda game since Morrowind
2I realized just how close to hitting bottom I actually am. Depression is a bitch and so is drug addiction. Now I hope to make some changes
5tbhnewfag is new
Fuck you Chris
She only ordered fo4 because she's guilty of my cum dripping on the floor in front of you, you know it's true. Those dank memes
8orly
4You ignorant ass son of a bitch
2your girlfriend didn't preorder fallout 4 for me today :^
3 Be 2015 Graduation Hello summerfag
0
0
8Why the fuck is ESPN of all places the first place to get ANY information on the game? What in the actual fuck is going on here? Not one gaming site has the news about this settlement.
7so u mean to tell me when yo took that old bitch in front of the t rex and her fucking head completely disintegrates for the first time in f nv u didnt giggle just a lil bit
7Fallout 2 and New Vegas have two of the same writers. They even have 3 of the same programmers. A lot of former interplay employees work for Obsidian.
2i called in sick for work and played vidya and shitposted all day.
1tfw unemployed and do that everydayits awesome isnt it anon?
1Do your job faggot
9They didnt have the same writers. NV had Fallout 2's writers SUPPORT, they didnt write everything. I guess that's why NV wasnt as utterly retarded as Fallout 3. Anyway, the guy is right. I'm not expecting any more from Bethesda. More of the same shit square, blocky graphics and a completely empty world. 9This. God damn Klamath from Fallout 2 had a bigger population than the entire NEw Vegas or Washington DC. I will pirate F4 and see how shit it is and probably uninstall it just like i did with Skyrim.
2My gf bought me a calzone... uneventful day... tomo Im hoping to unload a ball of snow, pick up a half a zip of some fire nug and a qt of some fine ass boomers, and like 3 hits of molly, and then unload those too
7It's nice man i spent alot of time unemployed and although i do love having a job now i miss that freedom and having so much spare time.7no u
2Passed my last MS exam so I'm now MCSE
2Just platnuned bloodbonre
4I have no fucking idea what you just said but I'm willing to bet you live off your parents.
8What an image this put into my head
4what
2i think u could not be any more right
4We're proud of you, you are an inspiration... im hoping to drop my deadweight but my conscience wont let mejealousy brewing inside mei hate you now, anon
9describe why you hate your wife anon im here for u
9/thread
7filename tho
1pic of her face?
more
Finally got to fap after 1 week.
228HehehehKids these days... amiriteoramirite?
6damn tell her to at least trim her shit just a little
3pls go bk to skool kay??!
3Actually you're wrong all Im getting from your last post is that you're a worthless stoner
5Not even wife, but essentially:prediabetic way overweightcontinues to eat proberbial shit chicken nuggets and mac n cheesebarely got into unialmost failed out first semesterno drive in lifeboring as all hell... picked up knitting as a hobby, expects me to be interested.needy, clingy, jealousweak and fragile... always in pain, always hungry, never willing to eat something that doesnt taste good, no matter how starving, etc.She can blow like a hoover though, and takes it in the butt like a champ. Plus, she gives me rides when my car is KIA and sees me as a god, so it sort of evens out. Im pretty sure if I was single though, I could rope someone way hotter and more self-sufficient into doign the same shit. I have some hotties hit on me every day. Im sure once I actually am single though, Ill strike out every time until I put a gun to my head and work up the courage to pull teh trigger."That's life" -Frank SinatraThank you for listening anon, youre my hero
6Close, except the opposite of the thing you said.mfw I dont do drugsmfw I have nice stream of untaxed incomemfw just got hired at financial consulting firmmfw Ive never taken a finance classmfw getting paid a couple g's this summer for making a shit tier websitemfw I goto Princetonmfw your life is shitty by comparison but you could never be man enough to admit that your inability to take serious risks will ensure a life of mediocrity6Planning on it, classes start in September methinks. In the meantime, you should visit a place called "khan academy" and work on that speech impediment you got there. Chicks dig articulation
8For you good sir.
9no problem bro but yeah you're right you can probably do better than her. If anything you can try to help her get her shit together but if that doesn't work don't let her keep you behind and just get rid of all that dead weight.
8asianhuge titswhy is she your ex anon?
2I fapped in the shower, came in my hand and swallowed it.
8She's pretty hot, damn.
3
6She's really a 12/10 when it comes to body and face. But holy fuck, her personality is dull as shit. She's quiet obviously, not really into the things I am we went to movies/concerts, she didn't go for it, and talking became difficult after a while. I ended it with her to hook up with someone else, and I'm regretting my choice. Which is why I'm drunk texting her, trying to talk her into hooking up with me again.Oh, and she was saving herself until marriage. Anything up to third base was fine she gave great head, took instructions like a champ, but absolutely wouldn't let me steal home. That was a bummer. Am I a bad person /b/ro?
1you gotta be fucking blind
6nah man if shes not giving it up till marriage and you dont click at all to where you would actually date her then don't even bother
0To each his own, anon.
4carlo5you retard, that was sarcasm. you da reel summrfag
6If you wana make it a lasting and actually enjoyable relationship you have to match up in the personality. Not worth it just for the pussy.
2didnt we all?mfw8I would suck grains of rice out of her butt all day long. Tank you, anon, I feel happy inside againmfw grateful0Its tough to really argue that she is deadweight. Realistically, for all the cons I mentioned, there are a handful of pros that counteract them. Besides, without seeing my handsome face, it would be hard to really make a convincing argument to any discerning audience.mfw how it feels to ventI got a DUI a while back and she carted me around. I tried to chauffeur her around when her jeep broke, but I bitched all the time about it. She puts a bit of a stranglehold on me sometimes too, and flips out for no reason, and blames me for shit I didnt do, and refuses to accept that I am a creature of habit, and has a harsh double standard, but unless I strike it rich soon, Id say my unemployment puts me on a level which would make it seem/feel really shitty to break up with her. Shes sticking with me now, so I cant say she isnt loyal... like a dog...Thought train derailed. She also likes it when I whip her with a belt in bed... and when I use it as a leash
tonight going to take some cialis and fuck my gf all night long :
i sneezed into my thing of yoplait yogurt and kept eating...
2Eating a chocolate bar
6Hrm... Id say that if she gives anal, I personally would have stayed in it and just dealt with the shit, but being this guy90Id say that this is a slippery slope, and that I am just the ghost of blowjobs future for you. In any case, dont marry her. Use marriage as a tool to trap the girl that you feel you arent good enough for. Its why marriage was createdtru story
9youre right friendo I apologize
1Successful thread derail successful
Gym obsessed faggot here. I frequent /lgbt/, /fit/, /co/, /vp/ mostly. Quite literally can't get enough dicks to suck, but most likely have my life more together than you fools. Ask me anything, full disclosure here. Will gladly dump some pics, may even take some.
dump pics
Should I dump sexy 2D men or selfies first?
whats the biggest dick you've sucked?black, white, mexican?
6how do you get motivated? tried gym several times and all I could think while in there was "this shit is boring"
2Yeah, this.I only enjoy working out when it's fun, like surfing or mountain biking
show me what you look like
4Sure. What kind? I may have to go to my phone depending what you ask for.7Was actually a latino cock, legit probably ten actual inches none of this measure from the freaking base and count one inch of body inches and hella thick. He was cut, and came like a hose. I literally drooled out the cum and had to catch my breath, and I am not so easily defeated by cock normally.2It can be boring, especially if you don't have endorphins rushing, or don't get runner's high or something similar. I'm part of that group. What gets me going is wanting to look good with my shirt off, have a nice ass, and sometimes I'll check out a guy on the ellipticals in front of me. Its when you start noticing you have more energy, are showing muscle, and being seen as more discipline that the motivation to keep going really kicks in. Question for you- what's really stopping you from going, you think?
Bumping to keep from dying, getting pics
8It's not about fun, it's about addiction. Thinking the perfect body means the perfect life, he says his life is together but that just means his addiction is satisfied. He's another sweaty cunt like the rest of us, except he goes to the gym pretending it's social but no one talks to each other there. Too sad
5Here ya go, taken a few weeks back.
0It's sad if you want to think of it as me fulfilling an addiction sure. But at least it's an addiction that makes you objectively better than the landwhales and couch potatoes that sit around judging you for being shallow.
Anon,s I made a small change in my life by starting one new habit- pushups.I *hated* pushups, they were the default form of punishment at the military academy that I was sent to. I downloaded the Just 6 Weeks app 100 pushups, followed it, and damned if I wasn't doing 100 pushups six weeks later.The company is Just Do Inc.Anon, want to make a change in your life? This is an easy, quick, painless way to start.You will thank me when your bulging arms start making your sleeves tight
3It can be boring, especially if you don't have endorphins rushing, or don't get runner's high or something similar. I'm part of that groupExactly this, after a session of 1-2 hours of cardio, weight lifting, even with a trainer I just feel tired, sore, and bored. Never had those endorphins or that feeling "good" after the gymAlways felt I could use those two hours on something more fun for myself...
9thisnow get the fuck in my pushup thread9
7No one has called you shallow here, do you fear that you may be? The comment I am replying to is the only one in this thread with negative comments towards body shape, and it's from OP of course.
9That's kinda hot. Push ups are a great way to get started. More guys should do it.3You could use those two hours fucking delicious boys in the ass for hours with your newfound stamina.
0that transformation..if it's you or if you know the guyhow long did it take?
0Yeah because that guys skin tone would change too.
5Meh, I'm a little shallow now. Now that I'm in shape I tend to ignore and reject guys that obviously don't take care of themselves outright. If that makes me a shallow slut, idgaf honestly.
2not that anon but im guessing 18months minimum for that transformation, plus a strict diet
2It's fake you gullible gym junkie.
8really it's easily not fakeyou can see the visible stretch marks on the fit form of his chest from when he was biggedI'm not junkie either. I just attend my gym 4 days a week. Nothing wrong with looking goodyou fat sack of shit
1OH YEA THIS IS REALLY IMPRESSIVE PHYSIQUE!!1
6kek
6I'm a twink, do you really think I want to be swole? What do you look like?
9Your tone is less full forward now as I read what you type. I understand and agree with everything you said, really. But I hate the gym and love to troll. I could be more active yes, I love getting a runners high but for me it's from mountainbiking til my lungs are sore and heart wants to burst out of my chest.
3It's like 2 mins in photoshop. But holy shit why is it the people that go to the gym the ones body shaming in here?
9ohh yee with small brains and big lusts. shallow hook ups and shallow way of acting means a shallow life. when you know your decay and all lies made bare. you will cry the tears of lost forever made silent. in other words. you'll be sorry if all you do is fuck and don't think about your life 20 or more years from now and what you'll need to make that a happy one so you don't kill yourself.
2Sweet. I haven't ever gone mountain biking and you make me want to go now. Do you bike freeballing?6Pft, and then there's this asshole that thinks just because I slut it up, that's ALL I could possibly be thinking and working towards. There's a lot more to me than how many cocks I take in a week, but I'm not sure you actually really do wanna hear about my book genius too.
Do you only target "straight men"
8I don't deal with straight or downlow, closeted men at all. Furthest I'd go is biscum dude for a quick lay, but never more. They have to be real men, though. If you're lisping and shashaying, my dick gets more flaccid than Caitlyn Jenner's girlcock.
1Lmao
6are you op?
1very hot body btw, i personally don't like gym rats. just tone or twink guys. 8
Im also gay and in love with the gym, and happen to love fellow fit gay dudes. I am pretty shy, and i want to know whats the easiest way to get into a fit dudes pants. I know that men are all horny bastards but i have can't tell who's gay and who's straight!
, 
Goodmorning guys,International online campagne manager-fag here. I spend around 15k on online commercials everyday but today we are going to have a little fun. I have 4k left wich we can use to spread banners online.. Get rolling guys, 11 or 88 get their images online worldwide spread.. I will also deliver links to website were you will see the banners as a commercial YOU MUST attch an image, else the post is invalid..
0Nobody wants?
what's this wrestler's name again
Rocco McSocko
6This
The pebble
Op is a giant... etc.
2Rick Flair. WOOO
The People's Grimace.
You don't know? What have you been hiding underneath a Dwayne Johnson all these years?
Nacho Man Andy Ravage
The Boulder, i love him
Owen Heart.
2IT DOES NOT MATTER WHAT HIS NAME IS
The rock.
6FAREWELL SIDES
Rock Block.
8lier
Dwayne "The Rainman" Johnstone
8the trips of truth
6X. Aggerate
2The Cock Ronson
2Nigger, that's his move. The pebbles elbow.
1trips don't lie
6Wait, that's his move? Who the fuck does the Bam-Bam then?
Roody Poo
Rocko's Modern Life
Stone Dead
The Cold Stone
Toco Shocko
i dont remember the name but he was a bishop of the Way of White. He was a close friend of Lord Gwyn and, by extension, Kingseeker Frampt. His hatred towards magic and Seath the Scaleless made him develop the miracles Magic Barrier and Great Magic Barrier. His gear also has high magic resistances to combat magic threats. In an indeterminate time ago, he became Hollow and was locked in the watchtower for his own good.
2He's the guy with the hammer in the talking wall movie
Elbow Napkin O'Malley
That's Broccoli Johnson you fuckin retard
2the nigg
He still doesn't compare to my favorite: Muscular Man Randall Sanders
8 You are off your rocker if you think that's his name.
4Randy Jacksonville
My all time favorite is 2-pac
Hey /b/ros, I've been trying to quit smoking, but patches aren't working for me.I've been thinking about vapes or E-cigs.If those are good or helpful, then can you please recommend me a good one?Also, I guessGeneral Vape/E-cig thread.
3like concentrate THC vape? fuck ya, those work like a charm. Not very long though, maybe less than an hour and a half. Good for traveling.420blazeit fgt
Alright OP this is right up my alley muh niggah. First off hate as much about reddit but they have an entire community up there. /r/electronic_cigarettesecondly and this ones a big one this WILL get expensive and confusing real fast if you dont know how to approach shit... Now answer the following:1 Whats your budget ? Mine was around 50$-$100.. Be fair. There's nothing out there cheaper than 35$.2 How much do you smoke ? This ones a biggy, you smoke a lot ? Ok then we got to get you a high powered rig, you smoke a little ? get a stupid starter kit nd work your way up.3 Do you just want to dip your toes into this ? If so - Starter kit. You want to blow clouds and taste EVERY FUCKING FLAVOR ?! Then i'll help you with a good rig4 idk.. I forgot what I was going to say.. Yeah answer everything else though
54
9I think op fukken got rekt.. Went out for cigs and never came back.
5Well continuing from where I left off. I'ma answer the question either way. If you want just a simple kit to get you started in the vaping world try the "Kanger EVOD starter kit". It's a 7/10, Starter kits suck balls now a days though. That kit goes for like $30-$45. And then head on over to any vape shop Brick n Mortar [BnM] and ask to try some flavors. Now if you want to skip the noob shit and not look like a fuk boy get your self a Regulated Box Mod. Something along the line from 20-50 Watts. I have a "Sigelei 30w" box mod that is reliable as a gay uncle who loves molesting you. Not even fucking with you this was a GODLY setup right there. Just get that and get some juices from Mtbakervapor.com and you're FUCKING SET. Get that hawk sauce and you're on your way. I'll make a longer post regarding specifics but honestly GET THAT SHIT NOW. IT'S DIRT CHEAP FOR A MOD AND A TANK. Also DON'T FORGET THE BATTERIES. just get ONE 1 18650 Battery. That's all.
Dump your stalk pics you bastardsPic related. NO KIDS YOU FAGS
bump
Any juggalos on here that will help a poorfag /b/ro live his dream of going to the gathering? I need ab 200 USD for a ticket. Also general beg thread.
2No
Fucking magnets
3Ok I understand...
4I doubt you do
6I do
2What the fuck is a Juggalo?
9It's a group of people who listen to the psychopathic record label
9You're either a summerfag or using some shitty bait... can't tell
Yeah sure I'll lend you some. Can you just tell me how fucking magnets work?
2
9They're faggots
6Not a summerfag but a semi newfag and not bait I've wanted to go for years now and couldnt
6They're really only a thing in the US. 1But do you understand how magnets work?
7Ha that's good but op is a weird way to spell your name
Can someone please tell me how magnets work? Scientists are lying and getting me pissed.
2Just kill self9A group of faggots that listen to shit music.
Be me circa 2009Fat kid, not sure where to fit in.Somehow get in with weird magic kidsHeres where it gets interestingOne summer me and the leader "Greg" were alkingSomehow subject of sucking dick comes upGreg mentions if I suck his dick he can suck mineI do it, I suck untill he cums in my mouth.He laughs and leaves me there with my mouth fullStill not as gay as OP
6I'm not sure how they work
4Magic, how else.
0Because Jesus
2if I tell you to fuck off would you attack me with your tin foil meat cleaver so I had a legal reason to kill you?I'm sorry, your "hachet"?seriously, juggalos are shitty faggots who listen to shitty music. stop or kill yourself immediately.
7You know what is great about opinions? They are like assholes everyone has one and most of them stink, its also a public nuisance to show them.
I never get these threads.What type of pathetic mentality must you have to just ask for strangers' money?Like, you're far too cripplingly lazy to get what you're after in life, and simultaneously so stupid as to not realize how undeserving that makes you of anything good in life.
2The only Juggalos with more than 200 dollars are Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope
scooby do and hatchet j would not approve
9Somebody that will dip their nuts in your soup, OOP!!!
2Whoop, whoop!
2TRIPS
2Wow my first beg thread and my first trips
9And my first dubs holy sh!t
7newfag
5Yeah I am so?
2How is it that much money to spend time with the worst scum on the planet? How will you have any money left for drugs, which is the only reason to go?
3I don't know I just want to go
jfc
2juggalosGo fuck a clown elsewhere, faggot.
Please re-evaluate your life and all the choice you have made up to this point which have led you here, OP.
9Only if you re-evaluate your asshole and all the cocks in it that led you here anon.
9people who shout "WOOP, WOOP!!" at each other from like 5 feet away
, 
Is there a way to view someones private instagram without adding them as a friend?i want to see my expicture unrelated
8make new accountadd rando people, post rando picsfollow herrealize what you've done, and your pathetic place in societycontemplate suicide
8just add her
5This./thread
pic very relatedbe me, 21 year old working at a nice grocery storetons of milfsholy shit i see at least 50 amazing asses every shifttake 30-35 year oldish milf out to carshe now obsessively comes into the store to talk to meshe gets totally flustered when talking to meall my coworkers ask what we have going onwhats the best way that this anon can go about fucking that milf?!
ANONS IM BEGGING!
this is bucket list level shit, im counting on you fucking candy asses
6Talk to her and get to know her. Eventually ask her out for a drink.
9the thing is that we talk for like 20 minutes at a time at least a 2-3 times a week while im working. ok good advice too because shes constantly buying beers and wine
4"Let me know if you need any help drinking those…"
7should we get high too? she references living in humboldt county quite often
Hello anon I am a psychologist I'll be showing you some pictures and ask you questions about them
8Go on
RAPE
go on
two niggers in jail, thats what i see
What's the first thing that comes to mind when looking at this?
6his arm is disproportionate.
6russians
6Macklemore
6Wampas from the empire strikes back
6bob barker singing undrwarter
How does this picture make you feel?
6it's a meme.
6A small head chiken
6i want to poke the eye.
6Euphoric
6yaoi hand
6Absurd
6annoyed
6Gives me the fair dinkum giggles m8
8ohhhhhhhhhhhh, it's a lip, it's a lip, it's a lip lip lip, it's a lip, it's a lip, it's a lip lip lipI love my lips!
6That's what Eye Like
6Angry
What's the first thing that comes to mind when looking at this?
6as if any big enough conspiracy would be able to not be as recognisbable
4nice phone cover
4faggots
4All people are equal, even the retarded ones
4i feel good, i feel superior and like seeing stuff like that social inept.
How does this make you feel?
6Shit's expensive.6I'm being watched4Rap.What does psychologists do with these answers anyway? I mean in an actual session
6Hard
8Looks like two people either arm wrestling, or putting their boots together.
6very good
6does not interest me or arouse me.
6akward
1I'm gathering up research,
6hard as a rock
imma honestly answer them all8a pelvisoh wait there's only one
4expoct us
8Wow, newfagot detected, summer must be early.pic related
7it is summer, retard
What do you think these two gentlemen are talking about?
6Not my thing.
8restaurants
8My mom
8Conquering Finland.
8They are having a disagreement, because one of them is sitting, the other one is standing. And the one sitting looks like he enjoys it. Yeah, the fucker is so fat he will never stand up again and the other one is jealous because he has to exercise by walking.
8how cgi took a big place in movies during the 2000 era and how it look dated now
8wwe smack down
6Fuck you, it's winter in africa where the reddit servers are all located.
8this anon's mom
8They're not talking anymore, the spic is going in for a handshake.
7Holy hell, youre here too
8How Op is a fag
6very warm6illuminaughty4omnomnomnomousfeed us6absolutely haram8agreement for black control if the mexispic gets to repopulate california and it works
8Post degree with timestamp.
8white guy stuff
8used cars
3Holy hell, find a new catchphrase, newbfag.
8That looks like two dicks with needles in their balls and two cannons... not even kidding
How do these words make you feel?
reminds me of anal
8bitches and benjamins
6
8pic related
6Like a faggot
6lied too
6Poor. Airplane seats are fucking terrible.
8Small talk, because they're modeling for a stock photo
6Like a drunken airplane pilot
Letting you guys know that you're doing a great job and I'm getting a ton of data.
6stupid words
8fuck you, next pic
6Reminds me of the stupid 'motivational' stuff you'd see on facebook. Angry.
6second
What do you feel when looking at this picture?
8Nobody asked for your life story, pics or GTFO
6I feel like she's having an alright time.
6I'm happy niggers are fucking all the white chicks. Means there's more black chicks for me.
6Feel bad that the Ku Klux Klan is shit now compared to what it was.
6bestiality is illegal
6angry faggots
6They both are about to realize that jet fuel can't melt steel beams.
6concerned, is his skin on his stomach coming off?
6fucking playa6aluminum4That's scary6I'm not sure...8plans at taco bell6sad6anger
9That's her hair, anon.
2stank pussy bitches
This man is your new boss he hires you but it's not a job you expect to have it tells you dispose of dead bodies for 4 grand a month, do you still take the job?
66AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAngry
5Fuck you i'm OP
4so it is, so it is...
6that is a horrible sunburn
5I just pounded 4 pints of guinness and I don't have even the slightest buzz. Does that answer your question?
8it looks like a small rib cage, spine, pelvis and the ends of the femurs to me?
5no. But for 4K a corpse, plus per diem, expenses, and legal retainer I'd consider it.
548 grand/year...nfw
8This. 4k per month isn't much and if you're doing shit that could result in life in prison, better get paid for it.
5No
6
5nah
9This!
3"You reap what you sow." - Albert Einstein
If you met this man what would you tell him?
0Activation sequence initiated, sir!
0Bring back /l/
0Good job moot
0i ain't got no panties on
0Picture please
6
If you met this man what would you tell him?
0Is holocaust real?
0That he did nothing wrong
0Thank you.Then I'd nod at him knowingly, and he'd wink back and me, and I'd know that he understands. .
0don't invade russia.
5Only if he checks my dubs
OP here: I will not post the results here
8why only two certificates? did you graduate on-line or something just as shit?
0Tell him the locations of all important allied assets, to keep russia on there side, to say yes to the researcher that was going to make a nuke before america
0"Fuck you"
6This homosexual
7he's obviously homosex, projection via rorschach imagery to bait other closet fags into ass banging
ok so someone fucking knocked at my door at 2am yesterday so i called 911 because ive heard of stories of people getting robbed and it just wasnt normal plus i looked through my doors view hole and i saw 2 men standing so they sent 2 police units that went around my block a few times within half an hour then left when they spotted nothing. They only knocked about 4 times then left. This has never happened to me before but now i am thinking about buying a firearm. I live in Colorado btw. Has this ever happened to anyone here? share your experiences
fucking pussy
, 
, 
music thread friends 


4rave music?
www.youtube.com/watch?v=07P538K83iU

1Goa trance from the god old days.
sounds like miley cyrus song
4Ha! I haven't heard that since I was kid.


7too good
guys make some pretty cool fuckin music video
Hit me up with your best gore /b/Pic not related
Th4The fuck
What is haven like?
5
5Dunno. It's in it's 5th season though, maybe I should check it out.
5It's free from age, religion, and idiology
5He's an as asshole, and I'm glad he's gone
, 
Steam beg thread get in here faggots
omgle win thread
, 
B I want off the ride Warning: The following text contains allusions to rape. Everything that takes place in the following video is consensual but may resemble rape. It is not a reenactment but may seem like one. If at any point you are triggered or upset, please proceed with caution and/or exit this website. However, I do not mean to be prescriptive, for many people find pleasure in feeling upset.Ceci N’est Pas Un Viol is not about one night in August, 2012. It’s about your decisions, starting now. It’s only a reenactment if you disregard my words. It’s about you, not him.Do not watch this video if your motives would upset me, my desires are unclear to you, or my nuances are indecipherable.You might be wondering why I’ve made myself this vulnerable. Look—I want to change the world, and that begins with you, seeing yourself. If you watch this video without my consent, then I hope you reflect on your reasons for objectifying me and participating in my rape, for, in that case, you were the one who couldn’t resist the urge to make Ceci N’est Pas Un Viol about what you wanted to make it about: rape.Please, don’t participate in my rape. Watch kindly.A special thank you to everyone who made Ceci N’est Pas Un Viol possible, especially my actor *********, my director Ted Lawson, and those I love who have guided and supported me.
3where is the vid?
Why can't people like her get cancer?
is someone going to give me the link to this rape?I want to see some rape.
0Last link
We need webs with sound and gifts on pronto. Can't load the vid
Its too bad she would actually be attractive if not for the whole crazy thing. As it is she needs to get over herself and move on with her life.
9No rape, its a reanctemennt
1is it her and is the link legit?
8I'm just too scared to click the link. 3well I want to see some reenactment if thats what you kids are calling it now
0I've already been to the website and also there's multiple big new articles linking to the site. I believe its safe. I just want webms because the video won't load for me
50Yeah guys just scroll down its her porno
HELL YA THANKS FOR THE RAPE TAPE YOU STUPID FEM CUNTWATCH AS I FAP TO YOUR "ART"ENJOY YOUR 15 SECONDS OF FAME YOU SPECIAL LITTLE SNOWFLAKE
0Click it faggot worst case scenario we partyvan together
9I'd party can with you any day anon80I clicked it and IT'S LEGITkind of a shitty porno though.
5IS THE PART WHERE SHE'S RUBBING HIS DICK OUTSIDE OF HIS PANTS THE NO?IS HER SUCKING THE DICK HER NO?IS HER GETTING ON TOP OF THAT DICK AND INITIATING SEX HER "NO"?WHAT IS THIS STUPID CUNT TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH REEEEEEEEEE
3NAH, IT'S HALFWAY THROUGH SEX WHEN SHE DECIDES SHE DOESN'T WANT IT AND STARTS PUSHING HIM AWAY. THAT'S WHEN IT'S RAPE. WHAT A FUCKING CUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUNT REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
3Think of this way OP, once she gets out of college her life instantly becomes shit.
3Pls stop ur triggering me
BUMP TO VOLA!!!
She already has the tumblr hair. ffsbut hey, she'll fuck a heavy dude as long as you'd be willing to go to prison for rape
2Still can't get the fucker to load though3Now I. Really interested
I like it
3REEEFER TO7I MADE THE FIRST COMMENT TOO QUICK
3Someone want to make this guy a webm?it works better with sound though. sound is everythingyou click the play button and it doesn't do shit, maybe use a dif browser if you have two. if not I can make a quick shitty 10 sec gif
This pretty much sums it up
3Shit plays on my android phone Firefox browser
I screen-capped the best part of the video
9I'm just on mobile is all. A quick gif would be good enough to ease my curiosity. Have this
0Well shit I'm android on chrome
3unless she put it in her ass like she asked him to do in all her text messages its not a reenactment.
9Download Firefox its cooler and they care about ur privacy
4sauce plllllllllssssssssss
is the direct mp4 file
3artistic sex-tape
93look here0
3Fuck it making webm bump thread for me
0DOESNT WORK
1Will do3Some Russian chick who's name I could never remember or spell. Never does hard core though I think. Here's the last one of her I got.6Can you send me a link to something get edumacated on this subject?
7for youbecause you're a faggotgreentext
8I'm uploading to you tube wait up
5TOP KEK ALL DAY IF YOU DO
So courageous.
5Well okay!
5It will be a 30seco ds2fap before they delete it
5Top KEK if you do!!!
3Alright...I'll give it a fap. Where is it?
5Shit froze hold on bros
7I already fapped. as soon as 5 this anon uploads it, I'll rip if from yt I have a think that auto converts it to webm instead of that slow as shit DL mp4. then we'll have come full circle. like god intended.
6Nigger can you not fucking read? what Is with all the people in this thread who can't read ?!
5Shhiiiiiiiiiiiiit and6
3it was tl;dr and another anon pointed it out. and now I pointed it out for 6him
3You expect me to read all that shit?
2#basedAnd also this would be top tier kek if it gets posted to all bdsm/rape/abuse porn places. /r/abuseporn2 would be a good one to watch the mods squirm because it technically iiissss a porno niw
053 postsall that shitYou could just control-F for "you lazy fucking cunt.
0I expect you to at least fucking browse it
3Damnit i want to see someone fuck the shit out of her.
53I don't want to fap to it on her website. She might get advertising revenue somehow. Upload it to porn hub so I can be comfy as fuck.
5Oh shit this is true6ad block nigga!5she does not get penis anywhere near her. only solo vids
3dot com
8Oh shit I just realized this Russian porn slut has tighter morals about letting dicks around her than mattress girl. At least she can spin money offf of i
The video keeps breaking halfway through. Is it uploaded to any other websites yet?
2GOD THANK YOU SOMEONE FOR FINALLY POSTING THE LINK MY NEWFAG EYES COULDN'T SCAN THROUGH THE OP
8Got it. Some sites still meter visitors hits rather than ad clicks though.
6It was right at the bottom but maybe your eyes are hurting from staring at that summer sun so hard
2thanks mate
4shit xvids or pornhub4kek I didn't notice that. for real #letsgetraped4emma
sextape now!!!!Don't be edgy nigerspics and report
3After watching that I have even more reason to believe that her rape never even happened. I guess the rapist was right this time when he said, "no one will ever believe you."
3Would be funny if she was supposed to simulate rape as an art, and someone took that opportunity to rape her and get away with it since that's what it was supposed to look like. lol! Fuck I love this world.
210/10It's not porn, it's artkek
2
4YES ANON. JJST LIKE FREE THE NIPPLE WS SHALL EMBRACE RE-ENACTING YOUR RAPES SO OTHERS WONT BE AFRAID TO TALKING ABOUT IT BECAUSE OF HOW "NORMAL" IT JS
she looks a lot fatter while getting raped.she should have hired a pornstar stunt double.
8did you even read the whole post
2okay give me a few mins and I'll make it a webmI'm supposed to be putting together my wifes desk. bitch gon have to wait

3Plot twist: She falls in love with her actor and along the way tries to become a thing with him.
3name?
4based niggas everywhere
619862913class="quote"Searching:Are you searching for proof? No.Proof of what?I said "no." It means "no."Are you searching for ways to either hurt or help me?No. What are you looking for?I'm looking for ways to protect others from your hateful religion.Desiring:Do you desire pleasure?As a human being, of course. I don't expect to get any from your misanthropic attention whoring.Do you desire revulsion? What? No, of course not.Is this to counteract your unconscious enjoyment?The fuck is the matter with you? I said "no," which means "NO."What do you want from this experience?Information.Me:How well do you think you know me? I know your psychotic persona pretty well. You keep shoving it in people's faces and stuff.Have we ever met?Thank goodness, no.Do you think I'm the perfect victim or the world's worst victim?I think you're an aggressor and an ideologue.Do you refuse to see me as either a human being or a victim? No, I don't. For a dishonest person like you, I'm sure this sort of question is about conscious choice. For honest people it's a matter of fact or falsehood.If so, why?N/AIs it to deny me agency and thus further victimize me? N/A. If so, what do you think of the fact that you owe your ability to do so to me, since I'm the one who took a risk and made myself vulnerable in the first place?N/A. Also, I'm not convinced you've made yourself vulnerable in any way. You're a manipulator.Do you hate me? If so, how does it feel to hate me?I don't hate you any more than I hate a virus, or a violent criminal, or a cult leater. I simply think you should be dealt with in a way that protects the rest of society from your ideological fervor.
2Bastion of women's rights by bringing their su"ffering to light" dick in mouth on camera and willingly...Also this vans bed would be a good cruising Mobil to pick her up I
2You should make the video hidden to those without the link.
dan bam you are an hero to us all
3Before I thought, "Well maybe she got raped and maybe she didn't. I'll never know so I'm not going to expend anymore time thinking about it."Now I think, "Fuck this lying cunt! Is she going to make a career out of this bullshit?"
Which anon just liked the vid?never laughed that hard in my life
9I wonder if she would let us do reenactments with her?I would certainly pay $5 or $10 to do art.
8So I hit 'play.'It's fucking porn. It's shitty, unsexy porn, and you have a terrible ass. Jesus Christ, you boring, fraudulent, attention whoring bitch.
5Keked hard. Top lad!
3I want to fuck that mattress.
3So glad she could be safely raped instead of knowing what real rape is. You have to thank her for supporting rape culture.
4SOMEONE UPLOAD TO VOLAJesus already!!!
The part where he slaps her made me kek so hard
6It would have gotten reported either way, I uploaded because that one guy couldn't watch it and to make it more accessible for you guys, link it on your fb news feed lel
Wait hold onreenactment of her rapeAfter the triggering rape, she just goes to sleep.
4about to fap this shit is hawt
2TFW he has bigger tits than she does
4i dont understand, where is the rape
3Monroe
Someone upload this to Pornhub as 'emma sulkowicz sex tape'
2#based BTW. But to be honest I thought it was going to actually be "sent" not so.e bullshit security can nonsense. And also it looks like a REAL dorm. Couldn't you get in trouble for filming a porno in your dorms?
5Ok i'll just do it
At what time did she change her mind?
3She falsely accused the dude of rape and still graduated, she could cook method as an art project and still graduate it is the future we built
2when he slapped her she was probably like "aww hell naw i'm going to be an irrational cunt. that will show him."
2right before that blowjob
8It was becAuse he hit and quit, prolly didn't even bustAnd then she didn't cum, so this is all out of a situation that she know believes is true
7I'm expressing the physical struggle of Americas most hardest entrepreneurs. So I shall be cooking methods for you all to witness to get and idea and also to make it authentic I would needs to transport and distribute and be able to spend the profits for further investment s in my new buisne errrr art gallery.....mobile art gallery. It doesn't have an address because it an rv...
2Mother fucking auto correct is hacking me off at the knees.
most boring sex I've ever seenbigger titties than herstop... ow... please no...leaves room nakedKek
more bumb for matres girl
0and another
5Uploading now.
7Give iit a funny name
4I tagged and categorized it humorously, the name is just Emma sulkowicz sex tapeit's converting
Damn son
7Uploaded to pornhub here: /view_video.php?viewkey=1567744572Reposts are prolly fine tho, give it a funny name too
3roll 7 to decide title
0This is "art" by mattress girl
4Shit I can't change the title
8That's a good name because then people will google the name and wtf to themselves
4you should dub over the original sound with some girl having an orgasm
3Do not watch this video if your motives would upset mehahaha whatartistic sex tapeAHAHAHHA WHAT
3Kek. Fuck this bitch, who the fuck carries around a mattress?
Wanted to see her tits ever since this started. Thanks bitch.
2Just because he came before her doesn't mean its rape.
0It's not worth it, she's fat and disgusting, the guy is also a lardass. 0/10 could not even get wood to this nasty-ass gook kike.
5A lying whore.
how great would it be if this got some kind of award for hardcore porn
This skank should make a video where she gets fucked by a dog. You know, to really stick it to the patriarchy.
yeah this video is really boring.
6Powerful stuff anon.
3"Attention Whore" hardly does this bitch justice. Just get a cam dearie and have at it.
6suggest it to her. Make sure to mention that it would symbolise how men are dogs, and blablaabla. I'm sure you can come up with something
SO TRIGGERED RIGHT NOW HGGNNNNNN TRIGGERED!!
2This chick is literally insane
Efukt!!!!!
3totally fucking just came to this video. i have a new fetish, watching feminists fuck and suck dick.
8WHAT DO YOU WANT??!Information.
ok b what is the most disgusting thing you have done today.....ei. i just sneezed into my yoplait yogurt and kept eating it
Does /b/ really hate newfags?
6Grapes
6no
Hi /b/, please help us name our band!
9Why did you post a picture of Echosmith?
Cocainators
9Even for b8 this is pretty bad
5Faggot
Curly Fry and the Extra Crispies
9Dat Friendzone.
Hardhat and the mongerols
Our drummer is fucking awful.
Alice and the three constipated eurofags
White People
One Hot Three Not
5Aren't they all?
alice and the 3 friends
whores
Doug and the Milquetoasts.
the extremely offensive bitch and the 3 women
No Sexual Tension Due To Siblings
Menstrual Discharge since we're all a bunch of cunts.
I wish you guys wouldn't be so mean to us : we're serious artists!
9SquAmish.
5
Here you go /b/, I heard you like feet.
6Tits or gtfo! Also add a timestamp.
Fags and Liars
0No :3But here's us at practice.
The Stationary Rocks or perhaps The What
Were all siblings
really wanna bang her but I ain't the best looking tool in the shed if ya know what I mean. What say next she clearly kinda rejected me. Should I ask her to prom it's like two days away and I don't think she has a date yet.
She's texting you one or two words at a time. Don't even waste your time, OP.
5thx grl
Thnx grl
The way you talk to women makes me want to kill myself, holy shit. If you're too much of a weaboo faggot to just say "I like you, you're pretty" like a regular fuckint person then dont even try in the first place
You seem to feel she isn't interested in you so why would you ask her to prom? Not everyone is going to find you attractive or interesting and that's the way it is
dont ask her move on
Just reply a simple "yeah"
thxgrl
you called her madame and prude, then she called you grl. give up man
Well shit, tried anyways. Better to have tried then to have wondered your whole life eh?
7"for all intensive purposes" god fucking dammit.
Is op guy or grl
7You asked a girl to prom over a text message lmao no wonder you got rejected. Do things in person and you'll get the results you want
5Thats the biggest fucking friendzone ive ever seen
7intensive purposesKek, what a dumb cunt
7fucking alice, she's taking a friend. fuckin shrekt
3Why the fuck would that make a difference. If she was interested she would have said yes over text, it would just have made it sadder and more painful face to face
3Clearly op is a beta fag, it is pretty straight foward not to ask a girl out over text...
3Whoever they were asking obviously wasn't interested so it made no difference. but I suppose it's better for op to have tried and failed
7tounge other guys too if ya want lolFuckin brutal
8I don't text ever. I only go for girls way out of my league. I fail more than win but it's much better to get with 8 and 9s a few times a year than constantly bone 4s and 5s. You have to constantly put yourself in uncomfortable to get the results you want. I'm a 5'3" guy and some of the girls I've been with are incredible. All because I manned up and talked to them
3
7well good shit then anon, sorry for calling you a beta fag then :
7Oh trust me she's way out of my league
7what a whore
7Tell her you can Alice can be a fun threesome all night. Word it like that too. Then correct her and say is should be "intents and purposes"
if you are trying to date up ffs don't compliment her over text. she also called you a girl. said intensive purposes. now get jaded and find a way to make out with her date see: drinking a lot
5This
7height doesn't matter as much but your texts reeks of faggotryalso, i'm not kidding. it matters a bit, and for the "alpha is everything" people, but it's not even that important overall.
5do it
7ill be cuck if you let me snif your farts at prom pls pls pls pls
Fuck it I'm not gonna be all salty because she wasn't interested. I'll take the fucking high road. Fuck this bitch, she ain't even worth the time.
5try this
9The almighty quads of virginity and dry boners
9This whole thread is pretty solid bait. aslso quads
9She respects that you take getting rejected well
9quads confirm OP will be a beta for life
9holy fuck you just achieve some mega-chill with your bro-forward attitude and quads. have some booty op
9Ask her what her mother is doing prom night.
5what the fuck
I dont know wether to cringe or to be sad... dont fuck with my emotions OP but seriously " you can tounge other guys too if you want" what kind of fag are you?
7Don't feel bad OP. You dodged a huge bullet swapping bodilys with such a retarded piece of garbage.
72what the fuck does that even mean
9Tell her she should be tounguing your balls
OP is a fucking retard
4it means that he ducked out and was cool about it, instead of continuing to be a faggot. even if this is fake b8, even if he;s a super fag. he posted something. you're just an anon loser faggot who doesn't even fail at talking to girls, you just rage fap over the cheerleaders at your highschool
OP, you need to man up. Forget all the virgin faggots here insulting you. They don't even have the guts to at least try like you did.Don't consider this a failure, consider you've learnt something. You need advices, find a man or something as a mentor, you need to know what you want and what you can expect. Might be your first day on this long trip of woman understanding. Trust me, at the end, it's worth it.
1What the fuck have I learned from this? That im going to prom with my crappy two friends and probably gonna go to his house and play smash afterwards.
4suck you friends' dicks. They will appreciate it.
7You can go get shitfaced and tongue other guys if ya want to LolSo many cringe moments in one sentence idk where to begin
5Dude I figured there was no fuckingg way that I was gonna get with her afterwards. Last time I tried that I ended up puking in the bushes while she fucked some other dude in my car and then he crashed it into a fire hydrant.
4Lol. That is the epitome of pathetic.
5You can go get shitfaced and tongue other guys if ya want to Lolhahahahhahahahahahhahaha
4clearly my success with women is a woeful one indeed.
4I need some cringe stories from you, seems like to have quality stories to tell.
I'm typing on an iPad so forgive any typos. I'm going to fucking help you OP, because you really need it.See what you did, is you asked her out and gave her a pass to say no in the same fucking text. You told her you liked her, and then proceeded to panic multitext like the aspiest of aspy. You've ruined any chance with this chick, move on still try to shove your tongue down her throat after Prom.Next time, don't panic. If you insist on doing shit over text just say it simple "hey I like you name"Don't fucking ask them out via txt. Ask in person and just ask the question. Don't add any other bullshit to it. Personally I've found phrasing things as a command works a lot better than asking. IE: "come to dinner with me" rather than "would you like to come to dinner with me?"I'm by no means alpha, but sorry to break it to you, you're a total betafag
4she fucked some other dude in my carthis has to be a bait now. beta bait. baita.wtf dude, like seriously, you're bumming me out.
2Ah I'm just giving you a hard time, man. You might fail a million times but as long as you keep trying your chance of success will go up as well. Better than being a crybaby sad suck fuck-wad douche nozzle. I applaud your steadfast persistence.
3This, OP I want to hear that story in detail
4You've learnt that that's not the way you ask a girl to prom.0But you probably better do that since you're a brat who rage because he didn't get what he wanted. Face it, you're not good at it, so learn from your failure and get better at it for next time.
0This.
2Keep inviting them to fuck other people and get shitfaced
5you think I'm kidding lol. I tried hitting on this chick at a kickback when I just met her, I got shitfaced like in an instant because I wanted to have to balls to ask hook up with her, and she was a little buzzed. She deviated towards the other guy and I was puking in the bushes. Other guy comes and begs me for my keys and I'm trying to sleep while puking my ass off. He won't leave me the fuck alone so I throw my keys at his ass and try to go back to sleep. Wake up to police and sirens everywhere, and the rest is history.
5beta bait. baitakek, you smart
4No. That has to be bait. Come on. Come on man.
7I'm dead serious.
5ffs dudepic related is a disasterplease cease this behaviour at once
7greentext in more detail faggot
bump
You typing over OP?
666666epic get otw folks
/b/ buys this shit now? don't you feel any shame rusing the mentally challenged, OP?
7first mistake: ask to hook up.you have to find that sweet spot between asking and being rapey. be smoov
7you had one job.
6
3friend asks me if I wanna go to kickback with a few chicksgo to friends house, like 5 people are therethinking this is gonna be my chance to get finally get laiddude tells me "we're gonna go get some alcohol and booze and get these chicks fucked up!"thisisfuckingit"but you're driving us to get booze"act happy on the outside but internally screaming because I knew I was being useddrive around picking up underage women and alcoholsomehow all this fits in my convertible E36 328i from 99get back home, one chick is made hitting in meholyshitthisisit.jpgfirst time drinking so I get completely shitfaced in like 5 minutes so I could grow testicles to hit on heressentially she was on me in the beginning then I started puking in bushes and doing crazy shitshe deviated away from me and gets closer to other better looking dude with muscles and shit
4the bitch stole it from me, I had it timed perfectly. I'm hurt, heal me
Part two;too drunk to care as Zeus' wrath is pouring from my the likest of my jaws like a waterfall.dude try's to ask me for my keys to fuck her in my car and assures me he was sober. Won't fuck off and let me puke in peacetoo drunk to care, so I threw the keys At himpass out in bushes with puke everywherefriend drags me inside and puts me in his couchwake up to the two fuckheads who screwed in my car telling be me they crashed it but it was just a scratch and they would pay for it, and told me to take the blame.chick complains that she left jacket in my car so I waddle outside to get it with her from my carlook at my carfront bumper is demolished and has been dragged from under the car for like half a milehood is crushed like my dreams of getting laidfender is obliterated suspension is fuckedjust a scratch my ass you piece of shitpolice ninja their way out of the fifth dimension and tell me to have a seat, whilst I'm still piss drunk, covered in puke, and for some reason in my boxers when it was like -20 outmake me sit in curb for an hour while I freeze my ass offquestion me for like five minutesfucking dude tries to blame me and say that I was driving.ohhellnoother friend get my back and tell him he's lyingpolice let my ass go and arrest other dudethinking maybe I could get pitty sex from chickno way I'm gonna fuck this upher parents come and take her homedude was under aged so I have to get money for the damaged to my car from his parentstwo weeks later and I'm still driving my totaled piece of shit.
9damn...
9Wow that sucks anon
61yeah, pretty gay night huh. Chick who fucked the dude in my car is the one who i asked to prom because I legitamently kinda liked her, she was really cool
9WHAT? WHAT? WHAT?you fucking what. dude. what. you're triggering me. you fucking asked a girl out who fucked a dude in your car? I was on your side but like, you need a time out man. gtfo off /b/ and reevaluate your shit dude. wtfWHAT THE FUCK ANON THIS IS WHY WE CANT HAVE NICE THINGS
5because if you do it face to face it shows you actually have some balls/are more than a beta faggot and are therefore more attractive?jesus it's like you guys have never even seen a woman before
8the fuck did I do? She was chill as fuck and she was hammered. You can't base people off of stupid actions they do while drunk
6brb gotta check those
7for all intensive purposesintensive purposesintensiveFuck
0no im not saying judge her. she's probably super cool. but let's pretend that we all play an imaginary game where you ear "points" and you need a certain amount and type in order to move to a sexy relationship with a girl.now you seem like a cool guy, and I feel like she must be cool, because you don't like uncool chicks. you with me? but given that she was kind of into you, and then switched to atypical broman was an event. she probably kind of likes you/thinks you're cute etc.but you guys are young and stupid etc. and so you gotta play this one cool. you cannot show any overt interest in her anymore. between her FUCKING A DUDE IN YOUR CAR that's so weirdly insulting, and then you being all fucking kissy kissy and subordinate over text compliments her calling you grl messages. you have to chill the fuck out dude. you are being a total fag about this. and you have lost points. so now you need to put her in the back of your head and just be trill. use your charisma and don't give up and if she's still around this summer maybe something could happen. but trust me when I say you need to ignore the fuck out of her.if anything is going to happen she needs to come to you now. it's so needlessly complicated. but it's true. find someone else at prom and be all charming and nice. but fuck that girl op, if you ever wanna fuck that girl you gotta be ice cold
99You have a Cuck fetish? this is some next level faggotry I'm viewing right now.I'll tell you this right now, delete & block her number then move the fuck on. You can go get shitfaced and tongue other guys if ya want to LolThis is so much more cringy now fuck, what were you thinking when you asked her to prom?
bump
7like I'm actually hoping this is baita, because I'd rather type shit to a fake scenario than see this kind of action. I've done some cringey shit in my day, you gotta in the quest for grills, but fuck sakes man
where's op self respect?
7Was whatever the fuck I did really that bad like holy shit. Sure, I said some completely faggot things and all but fuck, it kinda ended up that way with all the bullshit in the conversation. I fucking gave it my all and asked her out, and got rejected. Moving the fuck on now. Alright what else did I say that was gay as fuck? The compliments? I don't fucking know
wow this thread is fucking sickening and ive seen some shit in my time
9You're a complete fucking loser.I hope you spend the rest of your life getting cucked.
0What's your life like? How do you think people at your school view you like? You into sports? vidya? are you a virgin? You had a gf before?Give me details anon, and help me understand your mindset.
Well trolled OP. You got all these fags believing your an actual faggot
0no, that's what I'm saying. that needs to not be your all. or you need to not ask dudes who are older than you on the internet for advice. I am older than you and fumbled through my highschool/early 20s without posting on b for people to call me a faggot.just keep at it slugger. im not trying to give you a hard time, you're just a young nigger tryna get him some love and affection. I respect that. it's just hard to see it. you were pretty faggy and that's fine. what none of these dudes are telling you is how fucking gay they've been to girls. and the shit they have done and said. we've all been there, it's just you can't go back after learning how to be a suave motherfucker. it's hard to see young bucks bein so mad beta. but you'll get it. you've got gumption, that will take you far. good luck anon this will prolly 404 soon. have a good summer AND FUCKING IGNORE THAT CHICK until you know when i mean it! you'll thank me one day
5if your experience of reality is real to you, than what's really real
9well I'm known as that crazy ass loud dude who says fucked up shit and I essentially hate my best friend who I've known for 7 years but I have a bunch of other homies I chill with from time to time. Most of my friends are nerds and never want to go partying so I either solo or don't do anything, all my friends want to do is play destiny or some other gay shit on xbox. I've never had a girlfriend as I've never had the balls to go ask anyone out to be honest. Usually I take adhd medicine but I've been off them this year because I wanted to have fun and get laid. I have accomplished neither of those things and now My grades are shit.
1Holy Christ it's worse than I thought. You have no hope.
1Ehh, I don't see it. It's not like the dudes depressed, he just needs to be more swauve with bitches
bump
1can you tell us another good story from this year?
3Ya, but I've got to go to bed man it's fucking late. If you can find me in the morning I'll share to yall the tall tale of my quest for poontang. But as of now, it's gonna have to wait.
2Tell me what time it is now and when you want to start the storytelling thread and I'll be there
2You better get rid of that bitch op
4granted, will talk to her again. What if she texts me though? Ignore or What? It's 12:30 right now and I'll probably be posting around 5 pm tommorow.
5At least you admitted that you are a tool.
3Shit I meant I won't talk to her again.
3Tell her you nothing to do with her if she texts you or ignore her. you can still be friendly with her but don't chase her anymore.Go find a new girl with a better personality and actually try to build a relationship instead of trying to bang them right away. if you stop acting like a tard through text and hold good convo's in person you'll hopefully get a gf soon.
BlazedGo on /b/No stoner threadWutCome chill, light up and have a good time here.Smoker femanons more than welcome, bonus points for tits with bongsAlso, YLYL Stoner Edition
high af so bumping for the hell of it
contribooting
1lolwut
How to trick your mind into thinking you're being embarrassed, and humiliated.  Step 1: Go to your toilet and take a shit Step 2: While taking a shit, imagine yourself in a public place Ex: School, Mall, etc... Step 3: If you did step 1 and 2 correctly, you will trick your mind into thinking you are defecating in a public place, making you feel embarrassed and ashamed of yourself. ???profit
Oh man...Fuck you for telling your stupid trick.
0PROFIT
New california sluts thread. 707 here
LA area, my ex gf.
9petaluma
1I was born in Petaluma! Keep them coming!
9more 707
4I believe you anon
6Any names you want?
1Damn it's Jenna! Any more? Were you the guy I told to email me lol? I've got some kira and saydee and laretta and others
1Who is that?
Lurking for 209, no one really delivered in the last thread
9707 arcata anyone?
More petaluma
9Ashley B
7no, I just found this thread, lol. but you should definitely dump them, they're mad sexy
lets get some 916 up in here. Anyone from Folsom?
5Nice, got anymore? I'll post if you do
6Yeah sure, let me get them. You got nothing else to post of anyone?
1Unfortunately I don"t, sorry, man. Feel free to post anyway, haha
Victoria B. Also petaluma. Damn it's a good night to be on /b
any 415 particularly mchs?
4lemme see what I can share
6Here's Chloe a
6Bumping for 916. FHS anyone?
gamer girl claudia nude
anyone from 559
1Let me see what I got, got any of keianna g?
9man can we for once get a 510 Alameda girl here?
8If thread dies, got an email or kik I can message you at? Got too many pics to post
0Don't know anyone there anymore. Been living in Cupertino for the past decade!
5Carly
1Carly 2
Any from 559
5nah, I don't wanna post that shit, sorry man
lets see some 916! esther k, post em fags
7Emily G
0K, mines ug69000@gmail.com, if you wanna see everything I've got. But I'll keep posting
9YO is that Kendall M. ?
27moar anon
4sorry but nah, it's floating around somewhere tho
Mountain View anyone?
9nvm didnt read your post obv,,
1if you actually have saydee, kira, and laretta post that shit, haha
9no esther k
4Damn one day, I'm going to her grad party lol. We're good friends
6have any of Kayla T.?
2Laretta. Let's see who you got
6aye you got anything to dump tho?
0From MC? No, I've got marin girls though, like bellamie p. You got anything?
1I have none of her, what you have anyone form 916?
3nah, all mine got destroyed when my laptop caught fire. makes me sad, I had a few good ones.
5nah, I just found this thread lol
Bumping for 916 girls. come on!
2I posted all that I got currently, but share some saydee
7K, feel free to kik me at drakemillert if you wanna see more
yo my /bros come join the late night twitch raids where using Venti as our base of operations and our current target is jennyeatsbabies come one come all btw some oc boobs as a gift for all those who join
fap to her NOW!!!
No I'm good. Just had sex...with my gf
8ill do it if you post pictures of his dick
why haven't you had a homosexual experience yet, /b/?
6Because I'm not a faggot.
Because I'm not attracted to men.
6Cuz I'm not a faggot
6but but i have
6I vape, I'm enough of a faggot already without getting dicks shoved up my ass
6I'm a little bi so I've fooled around with a guy once or twice. I'm picky with dudes so I'm trying to find a cute fem twink. My gf wants to watch me dominate a guy. The things you Gotta do to make your lady happy. Such a pain lol
tried it once when I was really really drunk, took me about 3 seconds to realise I'm not an arsebandit and moved on with lifealthough the memories will haunt me foreverfucking fags
6I did once.I hated it.
idk manit just seems real fucked up to mewhen I think about it, logically it seems it shouldn't be so bad... let a dude suck me off, what's the big deal? lay back and close my eyes and make believealso I'm submissive to girls so it seems naturally I wouldn't mind letting a guy force me down his shaftbut the picture you posted just seems so wrong to me, because it's missing vagina and titties
lost virginity at 16 to a gorgeous young ladydate for 4 yearsthings happen, life changeswe end up at oddsboth heartbrokenshe starts dating a girlI meet a guy that I become great friends withhe goes to the gym, stays fitreal dominant in everything he doesI'm small, really short and feminine frame, long hair as wellone night friend and I are drunk as fuckasks if I ever thought about becoming a sissytell him nohe pulls out his dick and asks if I seriously never thought about itI never have but seeing his massive cock turned me onfirst time it's ever happenedI ask to suck it and he says he'd love me toI let him cum in my mouth and love itwe experiment as time goes onhe fucks me frequentlywe start dating4 years later and we're still togetherI'm his little sissy girl and I love it
6lol
Cause I'm not OP.
9/thread
I'm bi and I've already had one, so I guess your OP question is asking why I haven't had any more... well, that's because I'm a socially inept faggot and I'm too interested in a relationship.
6opened threadB-But I just did faggot
4goals tbh
, 
ITT: Opinions on Putin
Could kick the ass of any other world leader. Russian/10
Actually a nigger and a fag in disguise.
6just another neoliberaljewishbolsevik
66would defect to if if i knew how to speak russian / 10also these captchas are garbage
6Looks like a 1980's action movie villainOld school ex-KGB typeIf he played CS and pissed off everyone he played with he'd be a typical Russian.
, 
, 
, 
Last one deleted. All ears.
8I accidentally killed my little brother's dog while driving out of the house and said i didn't know anything about it. My brother cried for like 4 hours straight
My name is anon and I am a shit poster.
okay /b/ i need honesty here no keks cmon guys I need a real /b/ros advice. so I have thi ssfirned who we're not really friends but I guess he thinks we are, but anyway a couple days ago he somehow managed to admit to me that he's bisexual and he admitted that he's attracted to me, how can I avoid him or even alleviate this catastrophic event, god this is an abomination pls help for the love of /b/ tl;dr i have a gay friend who I want to stop bothering me, I need adivce you jews
bump
8I wasted $60 on Bloodborne
I'm currently try to quit my addiction to prescription pain pills, I lasted two days before I broke and got some today. I hate my anxiety issues and now my anxiety is through the roof. I'm ruining my life with this shit and it makes me hate myself and want to die. I wish I really could've known what I would go through because of this. I hope I can follow through and make it out of this before everything in my life is gone. I really hate me right now.
8confront him you dirty sandnigger, stop being a fuckin beta and alpha the shit out of him, and suck his dick too you flaming cum-guzzling faggot
8I fucked your dad an he liked it. Now he calls me everyday for more. How do i tell him to stop without hurting his feelings?
I was raped by George Pell.See my thread about ten news in Sydney.
4tell him you fucked op in the butt and in the ear, and jizzed all over his sand nigger's eyes and he'll allahu akbar u u fucking jew
0The best way to fight an addiction is with another. Try obsessing over learning a new sport or learning how to cook complex meals. You either get a reward from getting in shape or tasty food. Just breathe anon. 8You have to be blunt. He'll most likely just feel embarassed but just tell him you support him and you'll be his wingman. Gay guys have hot girl friends so down the line this is a win-win.9Don't waste 60 bucks on any game unless it's fallout 4
8When I was 14 I got kicked out of a movie theater while fingering my girlfriend
you gonna be alright, gurl
tfw You'll never be oldfag and 4Chan will forever be a site of mainstream cancer.
I eat my boogers
i'm lonely and i want to fuck my only girl friend so hard everytime i go to their house, but her fucking mother is always there
I really really want to fuck me aunt.
2/my
I miss my exIts been 3 yrsFuck
8It seems pretty unanimous among the ladies. I'm a fucking asshole.
8I fucking hate my job, college, the people I call my friends, my classes, and my fucking family.
7Trips can say whatever he wants
5Dont waste 60 bucks on Bethesda game
i just go into the coke wave
FUCK SOCIAL NORMS, I WANT TO FUCK SOMEONE'S BRAINS OUT
8When he had me in that bathtub and threatened my family, i should have just plunged my knife into his neck. could have left him there and caught the bus downtown, everyone was really drunk so i could have gotten away with it.would have been one less evil person in the world too.
2and another evil that adds upthink about it
I LOVE DOLPHIN PUSSY!
8I'm going to kill myself if I can't do what I need to do.
2Dont tempt me, i know where he lives and where he goes on the daily.ive thought many a times of just slitting his throat while he waits for his coffee, or the bus, or down the hall from his classroom.
6What do you need to do?
Im fucking my girlfriends sister
8Nice
6dude, you'ld be the same as him, pay him back without taking his life, empty his bank acct or something
a little while ago i was taking a shit and I started thinking about the universe, space travel, and all that shit we'll probably never figure out. anyway, I started wondering, apparently space expands faster than light, so my point is, at some point in the future could we recreate the big bang on a microscopic level, and contain for our own purposes such as somehow directing that energy in a way to allow ftl? I'm thinking basically like smashing "tunnels" through this univers.  i hope smeone understands what i am saying, i am not sober so,
I'm sad. I don't know why I am so sad, my life is just about perfect compared to most. I have everything I could ever want in life at this point. But I'm still sad. I wish that I could tell someone how I feel, but the only person I trust wouldn't understand. Hell, I don't even understand how I feel!I need advice.
I really really do not like my girlfriend even though she is really pretty and smart and everything. Issue is that I'm finding a hard time figuring out just how to break up with her given the fact that I put my peen in her and she is one of those super religious types who believes in abstinence. That being said I wasn't her first she lost her virginity to some other guy who broke up with her right after and she nearly killed herself after the fact. What do?
6thats actually possible bro, in the fucking future, not just now
1also I am a huge pussy and she is my first gf
I haven't been happy in years I am finally realizing. I'm not sure if I have ever been happy in my life.
0thats depression bro, consult a specialist or have someone have a serious conversation with you someone you can trust, maybe get laid after a while
6You're talking about nuclear fusion. There are hundreds of thousands of dollars spent on making that that happen safely. It's been researched for years, and no one has made any progress on it.
3the difference between him and I is hes sadistic and violent.Id much rather go on living knowing that he wont ever have another in the same situation. if that means ending his life bloody without the chance to explain to him why, so be it.
5Im guessing you dont like her because she lost her virginity already, i know that it is. Just take a moment to realize that shes beautiful and or hot, not everyone can have a girl like her, not even in africa
1So literally you just have to man up and do it. I know its not that easy, but it will jsut get worse as time goes on.
2Sex change.
1I broke up with my ex and we got back together which is the only thing I wished for when we broke up but now, a month after we got back together, and misunderstanding after misunderstanding, I feel like I should brake it off. I've also been thinking of a friend of mine more than my gf, but that friend, I don't see her and I ever getting together. I just want to know what to do.
i was molested and now im a furry and zoophile who cums in dogs mouths
1Tell her to do a flip
5Then what makes you different to him, then? Not everything can be solved thru murder or violence, filthy fags believe this but youre not a fag, are you?
I love my girlfriend, but her being fat is making me lose interest in becoming the best I can possibly be. I mean, why bother if she doesn't strive to be better? I've lost inspiration.
0Weird. Same thing happened to me
5Tell her exactly what you just told us. You're making it way more difficult than it is.
3
5if you get together with her realizing that its only for the physical appearance then sad to say she doesnt deserve you, but similarly you dont deserve her
8I am the fucking man, but getting older and living in this cock-sucking world of lying, weak faggotry is making me insane.Like the Russians, I decide just to drink and pee on people and say fuck this planet, though I know if I concentrated my niggergies I could save it.I could save them all.*drinks*
2a month after we got back together, and misunderstanding after misunderstandingYeah... you know where this is going. Similar scenario, I just got dumped again last week. It's her birthday this weekend.
8I ate my twin in the womb.
7I don't threaten and strike an untrained unwilling opponent because i can.Killing can solve alot, mindless killing doesnt solve anything
986I just think it's a fascinating idea. I was also thinking, if we actually ever created teleportation tech, would it actually have a range limit like it usually does in sci fi? I mean, let's say for example you turn a person into a radio wave, or whatever - and then did the appropriate calculations, and then direct it towards somewhere else in the universe.. it would take a long time to get there but it would eventually arrive, the biggest problem i see is keeping it from degrading and somehow automatically rematerialized when it arrived at it's destination.
5I started dating her because she's amazing. Her being overweight was initially on my mind, but quickly dismissed. However, after almost 9 months, I realise that in some aspects phisical, specially, I've let myself go. I was 140 pounds, and now I'm around 155. Not a great gain, but I don't feel inclined to lose the extra weight.1I see your point. but honestly, I don't think she'll change, and it'll just cause endless discussion.
1Shit, her bday was last week. I believe I know what to do. Thank you
I am strong, and I am over her. I am not the same person I was 5 years ago, and I will never be a second option.
5then i guess ive been acting ignorant about your situation, i know nothing about anything but if youre willing to risk independence just to act wrath over that guy then be my guest, but as a random person talking to a random person, i say no to vengeful acts
1i guess same rule applies to wireless connection, you need a satelite to transfer, but if another wireless technology is discovered then anything is possible
When I was about 13 I blindfolded my younger cousin, asked her touch my dick and guess what it was. She guess a hotdog.
2No IDGAF about any of that, but her personality just makes me want to ram my head through a wall. She's super overbearing and the things she says are just cringey and weird.
6you know ive been in the same situation where i thought my first impression of her would last, but in the end it didnt, she changed which led to us breaking up. If you believed she changed for the worse then you can propose the verdict you want for your relationship im not the one to talk
2Sounds like an unhealthy relationship. And you are turning into an asshole. End it before you keep hurting her 0Don't break the trust of a dog with your fucked up fetish. Stop making that as your excuse and have sex with women5You need to take her to the gym or on runs under the impression you want to get into better shape but you need a partner with you.9Take up learning an instrument to calm yourself and have sex more often
9Well hes got one more chance. if i see or hear any shit hes fuckin' shallow grave material.
I don't know what I'd do if I saw her again, good or bad...
1then its your preference, good serious conversations are always the best solution to stuff like this if you tell her something you dont like about her and shes ok with it and willing to change then its good, but if she gets angry and breaks up then its good also because you dont have to put up with bs in the future
2then its settled, hope nothing bad happens, goodluck my nigga
4What happened Anon?
8you should go full homo on him and cheat him with an shad, he will leave you alone after that.
I want girl who shape shifts to other girls with different personalitys and pussy types also bean burritos are good fuck u 4 chan ahhhhhhggghhh iv in my arm I'm dieing biological cells see you later ahhhhhhh I jack of In my hospital bed
7fag
8myuncle asked me to buy his meds, i always hated that fuck because he was an puritan, shit always forced me to go churchs on weekends.he gave me some money to buy his meds,i used the money to play at an arcarde.mfw he died of heart attack one week later,i killed my fucking uncle.i regreed nothing.
99You are damn right sir, this past week I've been so angry and stressed, and it's not fair of me to continue on this way, I will brake it off. Thank you all for your advice, and letting some idiot vent. You guys aren't half bad
8she dumped me via text, I know I should feel indifferent about it, but this is really the first gf I could freely see others were online/too far
7Kill yoself
4Learn english, bitch
8also, I thought we weren't done being together when she did it, and I can't stop thinking about her/what I need to say to her
4Just say it and if she rejects you, just move on
1Shut up you slut all you think is fag this fag that gtfo and take your gay mind with you
1I don't want to get back together with her, I just want her to see that I've been flipped upside down about this whole thing
8You dun goofed, faggot
9MVP 3
God. Fucking. Dammit. I hate you Anon. You use to be cool but now you're just an attention whoring piece of shit. Everywhere I look you want sympathy because your hog wife divorced your dumb ass and now you live at home with your parents with no job, no vehicle, sucking on mommies tit all day because you're "depressed" Well guess what fatty, every one is. Get up off your Dorito eating ass and get a job. Jesus you make me sick. I'm ashamed I ever called you a friend. Your kid should be ashamed of you for the way your acting. I'm surprised they let you see the kid given your crazy ass incidents in the past. You're a motherfucking lazy cocksucking jelly roll having mooching fuck! I hate you.
4Yo mama a crackhead you punk ass bitch I fucked er in Seattle
9lol thanks for dropping the knowledge broi dont use it as an excuse, im not apologetic for it.
7Ha
8Class S faggot detected.
7Dubß
7
8Hey you walking the dog I really want to talk to you but I am afraid to introduce myself. I only seen you twice while I was walking my dog in our condos community park. You are attractive I look at best, hopefully we see each other again if not nothing is loss I'll just go back to my life and do what I been doing.
3This
3Hey you dog being walked around some condo community park, ive seen you twice now and that ass is fine. You wanna head outside and maybe fuck beside some vending machine or something, that would be nice. If we ever meet again, bark twice and well meet at the nearest vending machine. Bow wow
3Show some more compassion to the people in your life. Realize that intention is most cases not all is something you should value in people. Sure did church suck? Yes. But he did it in the thought that it was helping you and making you a better person. Regardless, death is not a fair punishment for that. That man trusted you and you broke it. That speaks volumes839 No problem31st time you speak to her. Just say hi and smile and keep walking. So it casually dont seak her out. Do that a few times. Then drop a compliment once and keep going on with your day. Eventually try striking a conversation. Get her familiar with yourself so you dont come off as a creep.
1that's some great advice I will see where that takes me
Late at night , when i come back from work i take a shit in my neighbors yard, just so he will blame it on the other neighbor's dog , and they will both fight. i do this regualry at least 3~4 times a week for the past 3 months and it never gets old.The day after the shit, i make myself a cup of coffee and watch them talk shit and scream at each other every time and it's always funny. there are like 10 people involved in this and it's like captain america's cevil war, some support the dog , some the neighbore. when i look down upon them from my porch fighting and arguing i feel like a roman emperor looking down at his people / gladiators . shit so cash man , almost make the fact that i shit in someone's yard not crazy. 10/10 experience, would defecate on public again.
i cant escape the feel of the feels
0FUCKING THIS!
I killed my brother in a car accident last month I was speeding and we were laughing and my front left tyre blew off and we went into a ditch at 110 mph he died instantly but I got out without a scratch my father wont look at me and my mom already said out loud that she hates me and I don't blame her..man fuck this bawwling shit I just wish it was me
4Livestream an hero?
4Listen here pal, if you kill yourself then you wasted not only your life but your brothers life. Man the fuck up. Go help out at food pantries and the humane society. Bust your ass in school and work. And help everyone that is close to you until your body aches. You will be the most selfish coward on earth if you do that. Your brother lives on through you and you owe all of that to him, not yourself. Then maybe one day you will be forgiven
8I can't find any traps to fuck in winnipeg.
A friend girl that I liked kissed me while I had a girlfriend of a year. I created a plan on the spot to find a way to fuck the girl by breaking up with my girlfriend and getting back with her later. Without her ever learning of the fact that I cheated on her by kissing the girl back. It worked. I'm the only one who knows to this day. I still feel horrible over doing it.
0Either you tell her and break up or you go to the grave with that one and never do it again. The choice is your's if you're even looking for advice
4It was a mistake...but not one that anyone should rightfully keep blaming you for. Your brother would forgive you. Forgive yourself and live a good life in his honor.
My dick is playing tricks on my mind and telling my that I miss the piece of pussy I fucked for a year and a half. I don't. I miss her buying me things and fucking, but do not miss her as a person. I sometimes catch myself daydreaming in a way that glorifies her and the feeling of missing her, but quickly remember how much of a shit person and overall sad train wreck she was. Shame really, I liked her at first. Then her insecurities got the beat of her. Either way pussy is pussy and I shouldn't be upset over someone that shitty.
3Thank you for understanding I am trying to forgive myself but I guess only time can heal this shit upthe worst part of it all is when I dream that he is still alive only to wake up fucking brain man
8am i autistic/?I work around 60 plus on a good week. make about 900 bucks. 500 goes to rent i live with my momand the rest well, i dont know were it goes I TRY REALLY hard to work as hard as i can but i dont understand were my money goes. i dont eat out much , i have no friendsi fuck a 28 year old women with 3 kids  sounds worse than it is other than that I justfeel wierd/ i dont take lunches or breaks at work i want to be happy how do i become a man b?/im in love with a coworker. i have man titsi fucking have small handsim a mess
I don't care about the stupid Bruce/Caitlyn or gays or whatever, I'm just saying, in the past womens where less than man, Nigers less than white, guys less than Straight, transgenders less than non transgender.Actually Gay was a disease and niggers were not humans.I believe that in the future people that wants to marry animals, kids, dolls or fictional characters are going to be the same.
8You say that you're flattered, but you're only interested in a friendship, and need some time apart to adjust to this shift in your understanding of him.
9How old are you?
022feel 40
kill me
Looking back at my teenage years, I'm realizing what a terrible son I was, and the guilt is killing me. My parents went way above and beyond what they had to do, to always make sure I was happy, and I treated them like absolute shit. Despite the fact that I used to scream at them for no reason, act like a massive fucking brat, and didn't do shit around the house, they never once made me feel guilty or stopped loving me any less. I still live at home, so I've been trying to help around the house more and treat them like human beings, but I don't know if I'll ever be able to make up for treating them like garbage the last 6 years or so... Ironically, they still treat me like I'm their perfect son, never once making me feel bad about the way I treated them. I'm 19, turning 20.
I kind of want to kill someone, but for self defense reasons.
8Workout workout workout. I have pretty bad ADD but i feel 100000x better when my body at least feels good. Take breaks at work and let your mind rest, at least read a book. And obviously eat more healthy. Start learning how to play soccer or another easy pickup game sport and you will meet more friends. Also start planning on living on your own within 2 years. & stop browsing b and read and learn. You're going to be fine.
9I really am sorry you lost your brother that way. Even worse is that your parents are handling it the way they are. I hope they come around and realize how lucky they are that they didn't lose you both. Give it time anon. I sped all the time when I was younger and people do it every single day. You just got unlucky. At least you were laughing and being brothers together. Some people lose family on a bad note and never get the chance to fix it.
8listen here you nigger.the fact you have not told him that you're not gay yet makes me think you find it hard to decline his offer.
1Bud I am 22 and I felt the sme way. Do well in school and just start treating them better now. You sound like you are on the right track. Try giving the, hugs more often too. You're self aware so start changing for the better.
i wish /fa/ would go
I hate my life. I have a 6 month old son with a girl i have no feelings for, but im too much of a pussy to leave her. I tell everyone im taking a break from college to work and make money to support family but really i used all my financial aid and dropped classes so often i cant afford to go back. Everyone thinks highly of me but in reality ive ruined my future. Ib hate my job but I'm not going to find a better one. I got into a fight with my parents and moved out.. Now all i want to do is go home but Im too stubborn to admit it was all my fault. I have crippling credit card debt and i am so used to living rent free and having my parents pay for everything, im even more broke then i ever was and i worry about not being able to afford diapers or food for my son.. I hate my life... But i smile and act as if everything is fine.
3good job. He harassed you and then expected you to help him? That's what you call a failure.
9Make things right with your parents anon. Most parents will take you back no matter how big of an asshole you were, I found that out the hard way.
i have cancer
8this is what abortion clinics are for, bud.
8I ENJOY SPOONING WITH HAIRY NUDE MASCULINE MEN! I EVEN ENJOY RUBBING MY HANDS INTO THEIR FURRY CHESTS IT MAKES ME LEAK PRE-CUM EVERYWHERE. I ESPECIALLY LOVE IT WHEN THEY CALL ME "BABY" AND TREAT ME LIKE A WOMAN OH MY GOD IM CUMING JUST FROM WRITING THIS
still in love with someone who left me a year ago, blah blah blah. said it so many times its getting old. yet it never changes. what the fuck do i have to do to really move on.
9I have 2 jobsOne is at a costco like store which keeps me momving quite a fucking lot . i try jogging here and there. I dont eat shit like snickers or candies or any real junk food. just home cooked shit. but ywah, alot of soda/ my second job is in a newstand so i read quite a lot manjust finished american psycho'ive read stephen king there, i think 6 already I cycle too manwhenever i get the chance and i do hang with some cyclists at times but the issue remains tat even the people i speak with at said rides are just... fake. not like "oh you's a fake nigga " just, you know, no one seems interested in what i have to say 'I wanted to move already but my mom kind of needs meshe has a boyfriend who pretty much pays for everything and takes her out on vacations and stuff so i know he can take care of her but she is scared that maybe he could just fucking leave one day i guess she also thinks im not ready idkhey manthanks for listening
0have you fucked anyone since?that seemed to do it for me
3I've never fucked anyone. She was my first and wanted to wait till marriage.
8
5Try calling a mental health clinic. Hopefully you have insurance but regardlessmit is worth the money. Get a diagnosis from a psych and see a therapist. Dom't overthink everything buddy. Dont try too hard to fit in or talk with the cyclists. Just smile and ride and most importantly, listen. Listen. That can be used for everyone. Talk when you feel comfortable
8I'm a paramedic and I enjoy seeing dead people, knowing there's nothing I can do and can kill some time before another job.
When my friend started dating this chick ,we studied in the same classroom, she had a extremely hot body, sometimes i noticed she kept staring at me but i pretended not to see ,this day i was just chillin and get a text of her wanting to talk,that came to happen on a daily basis ,fast forward, she wanted to cheat on my friend with me ,i in the brothers code said fuk no bitch thats my friend and we never spoke againuntil the next day when i was horny as fuck and called her to come over and then, betrayed my friend
8i start "say it get it off your chest now" threads from my office here at the FBI in order to easily get criminals of a variaty of crimes to self incriminate, while i trace the IP adress through a program one of the IT boys hooked up for me.whew i feel better now. good to get that off my chest.
5Honestly, if your definition of fake is "not interested in what you have to say", you're going to find it tough to find "real" people. 90% of conversations are just people giving each other chances to talk about themselves, with no real interest about the other person; just interest in an opportunity to talk about themselves. If you want to find someone who genuinely cares about what you have to say, get into a relationship.
7now where did i put my high powered magnets?
7This is your boss, Chad. Get the fuck off my case I told you this one is mine
7I have an IQ exceeding 190, and I found no trace of a FBI tracker, even though I used the command prompt. I highly doubt you're telling the truth.
Dear anon from the last thread,You tried to convince me that animal's instinctual evolutions are the result of their own "intellect" and force of will. I'm still not sure if you were trolling me or not, but the sheer stupidity has my jimmies rustled to the point that I wish I could sodomize you with a pine cone. I hope you are unable to produce offspring in your lifetime.Sincerely,Anon.
1Not trolling. If anyone should be sodomized, it should be you, you fucking closed minded idiot.
8My prude girlfriend is becoming more open about sex and she might try something soon. The bad news is I feel low on testosterone at the moment, so I'm not really interested in her for right now.
0Greig, i thought you told chelsy that i was on the thread protocall today?dammit, can we use the office messenger.
8kek
1not knowing the fbi own 20% of the server after last year and dont need to track anything since they save everything now, moot sold us out. newfreind
I am a Nigger.
0How old are you guys?
I don't really understand people in general. I don't understand why they do the things they do or say the things they say. It's socially acceptable and even expected to be fake while in public 100% of the time, yet people cry and bitch about nobody understanding them or wanting to be with them. They don't make any sense at all. I feel lonely in a sea of people.
met qt.14 over a year agoalways flirted with each othernever did anything because "muh boyfriend"we stopped having class togeatherthings between us became dense and I became too clingyeventually we stopped talking for 9 monthsi was a heartbroken faggoteventually I accepted we weren't meant to befast forward to presentget a text from her one dayshe's "lonely" and "wants someone to talk to" all these old feelings come backwant to build back are relationship feel like it could work considering I've improved mentally and physicallyjust too nervous of want to text herthis was a few weeks agohaven't talked senseSo basically I want to rebuild our relationship, but don't know how to evem text her considering I'm a beta faggot. I'm scared of her but want a relationship.So I'm guess I'm asking how to talk to an old friend?
I'm hungry god damnit. Rent and bills are paid but only just. Have $25 to last me a week, and my shit-eating GM won't give me the raise we both know I deserve. He's running off every goddamn decent worker we have, already got rid of 3 managers. I'm amazed he hasn't been fired yet, what with yet another mass exodus coming up. Fuck off, stomach, I'm fully aware of your presence.
8I almost said "I love you" the other day. I stopped myself considering the fucked up situation.Funny thing is I used to, and after thinking about it I don't really think I do anymore.
2Kill her mom the fuck them both
i'm the last virgin out of all of my friends. we're in college and i don't think they know, or they talk about it behind my back. I was severely depressed throughout highschool and never told anyone besides this one online friend i have. i'm still recovering from it and things are looking better but i still feel like every female i've ever talked to is either really hideous looks or personality or hard to keep conversation with. i'm not even worried about the fucking as much, it sounds sappy but i just want someone to hold and spoil with gifts. i cope with my emptiness by buying designer clothes for myself. that felt surprisingly good
Today I realised how fucking far I am in the friendzone the girl I have a huge crush on doesn't like me and thinks we are "just good friends" and now she's into my best friend.Fuck my life.
0it doesn't sound like you ever had a relationship
8My wife and kids have left me and I know it's my fault. I pushed them away. I should have sought help after my first deployment instead of becoming an alcoholic and making them suffer with me.
7Calling someone a newfriendnewfriendfriendYou're the newfriend, faggot :
i killed my ex girlfriends cat when she left me for another guy. I feel really bad since the cat didnt do anything to me and its way overreacting but i killed it and now I have to deal with the regret
5How old are you?
3you don't have to live with it...
0I could go into details, but it would take fucking forever.And I'm not looking for a couple relationship, I guess I just want my friend back.
312
3late 18, 19 in a few months
4We're pretty young actually, but I'm an insomniac whose doing weight training to get a more toned and capable body. The only problem is physical activity can decrease your sex drive after some time and my lack of sleep doesn't help that.
5i just want someone to hold and spoil with giftsbuying designer clothes for myselfAnd that's why you don't have a girlfriend. Although you sound like someone who's actually looking for a boyfriend.Oh, and spoiler alert: nobody besides you cares. Absolutely nobody. Some may fake interest, but at the end of the day they won't remember.
I have always been protected behind my walls of my Ideology, I was a firm secularist and an advocate of liberty and humanism and I felt good about it, then I befriended this man who was once like me but became religious and we debate all the time, at the beginning I felt like I am going to show him the light, to reveal him how corrupted and primitive is religion. But slowly he managed to get through my lines of defence, he showed me how meaningless and miserable is the western way of life, how fucking and partying are just things that are fun at the moment but leave you hollow inside, how sad is to invest so much emotion in so many relationships that end in a snap and how relligion can provide the discipline and the community for living a nice life.I dont know what to do, on the one hand I still dont believe in God and find many flowes in relligion and I dont want to embrace it but on the other hand I feel now that the secular life I had admired so much are null and void.Maby ignorance is a bliss after all
5Eggs. Eggs and toast friend. 0Ask her to come over. Make some food together and talk. Then see where that goes.2 if she didnt do it with you, she would have with someone else. Still very shitty anon. Think if you were in his shoes5Have sex with hoodrats. Please. Soon.5Move on. Work out. Work. Forget it.
8you were the love of my life, not a day has gone by that i dont think of you. i doubt you have thought of me in months. il never forgive myself for loosing you and im afriad il never get over you. so thanks, thanks for fucking me up
1You do realize that that line of thought is akin to saying "Trees evolved with roots because they decided they didn't like walking" or "squirrels get hit by cars all the time because their collective hive mid decided that they wanted to evolve with shitty depth perception"
6Kek
6How did he convince you? What were his main points?
I think I might be asexual. I mean I like to masturbate to women all the time, I even want to fuck some, but I don't find any of them attractive to build a relationship with. Sometimes I even ignore a hot chick on the street because I just don't care. As a matter of fact I never want to have a girlfriend or wife, I'm fine by myself.
Nicole-Sorry I broke up with you the way I did. I was young and wanted to go hook up with a bunch of chicks. I had always thought if I had met you later in life I would have loved to marry youCruzie-Damn I loved you with a passion. I did not know what love was till i met you. To bad you were a whore and already married. still, you played me like a flute and i loved every minute of it.Ashley-the sex was amazing and i loved your DD rack. I wished i would of stopped you from leaving to the air force but you were also a little crazy. Probably better i let you go as you got super fat.Monica-my babys mama. There will always be a spot for you in my heart. We would have worked too, if you wernt such a bitch 24/7. Still i love you for giving me my son.Sandy-we were friends before lovers. They way you did me dirty though i cannot forgive you for that. Dayana- i will come back to the topic of you.Diana-you wanted perfection when all i wanted was you.Dayana: you were the love of my life and said that i was yours. I belived everything you told me and belived you when you said you loved me. When we ended I was broken for a while. it is only now that i am finally putting the piceses back together. It was finally today that i have realized that you did love me and that you u just simply moved on. Its time i finally do the same. Bye
8Blah, blah, blah. All I hear is "I'm close minded and refuse to consider other people's opinions".
2holy shit, do you have a vendetta against fashion or something? lmaoi actually have a fair amount of friends interested in streetwear and fashion, thanks.8why? i live in a town with mexican girls i could possibly pick up, but i'd rather notprefer my first time to be really vanilla and beautiful
6wtf
6That's /b/ for you.
4this guy...
8spikey i may of neglected you for all those years but i swear on my life i will have my revenge for what that bitch did to you.
There was a tall man from CornwallWhose length exceeded his bed."My body fits on itBut barely upon itThere's no room for my big Cornish head!"
9bloodborne is a great game that provides endless hours of addicting hardcore gaming action
77You're a virgin so I'll let you in on a tip. Latina girls may not be the hottest. But their pussies get creamier than any other girls and when you rek them the shit is so cash.
6The strongest men are the most alone... - henrik ibsen
0She's going to friend-zone you, guaranteed.She's lonely and wants someone to talk to? That's friendzone as hell.
7holy shit, do you have a vendetta against fashion or something? lmaoi actually have a fair amount of friends interested in streetwear and fashion, thanks.wat?
1holy shit thats creepy she will think you are stalking her just talk to her like a human being
5OP here. Or she wants to fuck. Can go either way0
6noted. i don't really know how to initiate that though, i know nothing about mexican culture or what they like or care about lol. i'm probably overthinking this, i should just go to some parties
7you must be new, friend.
3wow, I hope you never stop suffering for that.
I had planned to kill the DA who prosecuted me and make it look like a suicide About 4 months before i was going to put it past he killed himself because of a bunch of his own shit hitting the fan. He shot himself with a 12 gauge, i was going to hang him and watch him die. It still pisses me off when i think about it.
I used to fuck dead animals because I didn't have friends or a girlfriend. I used to invent lives and personalities for them.
8are you autistic? how was my reply not clear at all?do i need to explain it slowly?
6You can learn from it and follow practices without believing in fairy tales.
3Make as many taco references as you can. No matter the conversation topic, emphasize your knowledge of tacos. They are attracted to men who are highly knowledgable about Mexican culture.
2How is it creepy that whenever he happens to come across her in his daily life that he takes it slow just by being friendly?
2if it was that easy i'd be swimming in mex pussyi fuckin love tacos
5Yeah, I honestly just miss her as a friend to be honest, she was cool as fuck. Also I would've told her to fuck off when she texted me, but I noticed in her profile pic she wasn't wearing this necklace her boyfriend gave her anymore, she said as long as they were togeather she would wear it.So maybe this is some sort of offering?
0I don't wat often...but when I do....jesus christ.
I still want to put it into my ex.
3OP again. Dude you dom't need to know about their fucking culture. Talk to them like a normal person and invite them to lunch and then your place after a few dates and let them touch your damn penis. Shit man you have alot to learn my friend
1Open-mindedness is NOT a willingness to believe stuff that makes no sense without any shred of proof.I'm open-minded enough to entertain your crazy concept, but I already realize you're probably fully of shit and are probably a troll.But hell, maybe if I try hard enough I'll sprout a 3rd butt cheek.
3yeah like i said i avoided basically everyone besides 3 or 4 friends throughout high school, i had one girl i was interested in but i was beta as fuck and let her slip away before anything happened.i don't know what normal people talk about
8Most of the jobs I worked, I worked with food. I'm very knowledgable with poisons... fighting the urge to spike the food of a-holes all the time. I know what toxins PD labs look for and it is a far smaller list than what I can get or make. Where did I learn the skill? I didn't always make money legally.
3I really doubt it, but of course you never know.
8I've been depressed since I was a child and am finally thinking about getting professional help after a life of dark misery. I pushed away loved ones and cut and thought about ending my life for too long
8If you're that socially fucked up, how do you have friends? You mentioned being the last virgin in your group of friends... What do you talk to them about?
2really, if I were you I'd be elated.
I loved this girl that I walked home with often but I never told her how I felt
8"im straight"easy as that, you fucking retard
0Idk mostly Pokemon and bragon ball zCome to think of it, we talked a lot of how we should have a gay orgy and shoot everyone who bullied us.
5As I said, that we westerners have no meaning in life and just jump from "fun" to "fun" untill we die without really contributing nothing or producing any meaning to this life, Its just struck me like a thunder when I visited a relligious community not long ago, everybody were extremely nice, the kids were social and well educated, the girls were preety and smart and modest, suddenly my way of life became a sad imitation of the relligious one.7But isnt it difficult living your whole life in a lie? Relligion after all is completely based around God
I accidentally squeezed my first hamster too hard when I was a kid. He made a really weird noise when I did it and I put him back in my cage... I knew that I dun goofed..... When I got back from school, my mom had told me he diedI still think about him every once in a whileI miss you Furry :c
8Watch some movies with actual dialogue with respected actors. Watch some soft core porn. Read up on current events and get into at least 2 sports like football or soccer or basketball. And go on runs.Most importantly dont overthink how attracted you are to the latino girls. Just have a good time and get laid. You need that experience to get rid of some of the autist for your real gf in the future. Boom. Start from there.
2I bet from her perspective, she is just thinking of you as a friend.The only way to avoid the friend-zone is to be up front about wanting to date. Be cool about it, but just be like, "Hey, would you like to go on a date this weekend?" Don't say "hang out" or "go to a movie", make it 100% clear you're interested.This is your only chance.
6Your friends aren't virgins, and their conversation of choice is about pokemon and dragon ball z? wtf
the woman i'm in love with has been my closest friend since i was in the first grade; too afraid to tell her how i feel; feel like i'd lose her.spending my life dreaming of what could beregret
0music, clothes, making fun of other people, sometimes politics but they're full on libtards so that gets difficulti WAS socially fucked for the last 5 years, i'm getting better. it's just that my circlejerk of friends are all interested in the same things so it's easy to talk to them. i guess you could call me a hipster but i don't like the term. i'm mostly from /mu/ and /fa/ i don't know what took me to /b/ today. either way, i don't think basic mexican girls want to hear about my opinion of Death Grips, or why ambient drone music is so fantastic.like i said, i don't know what normies talk about. that's why i'm trying to learn, so i can function within them as well.
0Just do it. Better to try it and fail then never even try. Definitely.
8give him head, but don't use your usual sophisticated technique, give him a really sloppy blowjob instead he'll be so disappointed, that he'll leave you alone
4::: I'm sorry :
2I know the feeling. Contacting the VA and getting counseling was the best thing I ever did. Get the help you need and when you are better try reconnecting with her. I wish you the best brother.
8I'm 22 yrs old and I'm overweight and have psoriasis/eczema and have the social skills of a 2 yr old. Haven't had a girlfriend since high school, dropped out of college after 3 yrs, am now stuck home with no job experience, vehicle, or friends nearby. What do i do.
0idk dude; it's weird. i'd explain our relationship in more depth but it'd take too much time. i honestly feel like i'd be better off ignoring my feelings regardless of the pain it may cause me; and just fucking a bunch of chicks.
1I miss my ex it's been 10 here.
9Why did you drop out?
9suicide is always an option, but tht shit is pretty expensive. try tinder?
Bruce, Caitlyn whichever I still don't care stfu about it already...
9Failed too many courses after going to college on dad's GI bill. Decided it would be better to rethink what I wanted to do before taking out loans and stuff.
8I have a huge crush on a girl named Bryn
3I could never bring myself to believe in God because there's no proof.Just because, in general, western society is vapid, doesn't mean you can't have a purpose in life.You can transcend the western nonsense, even if it's as simple as living healthy, being kind to other people, and doing something regularly to help people.It sounds like you are looking to use religion is a crutch to achieve something that doesn't require any leap of faith.There are plenty of not-so-nice religious communities as well. Religion doesn't make people good, habits do. Religion is just a crutch to help stupid people do right and also stay in the habit of doing right.Aren't you better off doing what you know is right because it's right?
3Sheit I got nothing to lose, ill keep your advice in mind anon.
I've been wanting only one chick for like 3 years now. My friend started hanging out in her group of friends and he said he would help me out but ended up only helping himself. I don't think of her often but she still lingers in my thoughts, I guess. I guess it's because I envision her as someone who's perfect for me. I really have no idea why I won't say anything to her. I guess I feel it might be weird of me to start trying to talk to her especially since I don't think she even knows I exist.
0Well, I wish you the best.
I cut myself instead of dealing with things that upset me and because I'm bored. I smoke cigarettes even though they are bad for me but I won't own up to it because I'm embarrassed and people think I'm smarter than that. I have an awesome life rn as a 21 yo high school dropout and appear ahead of my game and people are jelly of me, but I still am a little edgemaster shit who lurks 4chan on the inside and I don't know why.
I just got back home from a Disney World trip with my girlfriend 30y/o, her two kids, and her little sister 22y/o. I went back to the hotel with the little sister because she left her camera there and long story short we ended up fucking.
ok, here goes nothing.1.- I have a crushing deppresion problem, and I hate my family because they refuse to take it seriously, however I stay in parent's house until I finish my career because it's way easier to save money to flee the fuck away from them-2.- I plan on moving to Ireland after I finish my career, following the woman of my life, who loves me back, but I feel like she'll never love as much as I love her and I'm perfectly ok with that.3.-It's really hard to make friends for me because I'm introvert and anxious as fuck, but I'm trying hard to make at least one online.
8I can't find a job because I fucked off in college and now I have a piece of paper that cost me 100k and I'm scared I'm never going to succeed and drink myself into oblivion.Plus I'm overweight and short and haven't had sex in over 3 years. Haven't even gotten off from a woman in the amount of time. Feels so bad man. Some days when I'm alone with my thoughts anheroing doesn't seem like such a bad idea when I rationalize. Then I remember I'd never have the balls or motivation to go about actually doing it and continue the cycle of mediocrity. It's gotten to the point where I cross the street without looking hoping someone just takes me out. If they don't I figure I could make some quick money. Then I think maybe I'll just join the military and defer all my loans forever so I have a free place to eat and sleep. An if anything happens in combat somewhere down the road and I die it'd be a win win. But as I say all this I realize I'm just a dreamer. I'll type all of this out but the truth is I'll never move away from this screen. I'm too lazy. Sure I work full time. But I make shit and I'm back living with my parents again. If I had a reasonable source of income to move out, pay all my bills on time, and live comfortably I think I'd truly be one of the happiest people alive. I need help.
3fuck you pauly.
2Did you use said camera?
8I have zero self esteem and no confidence like everyone else on /b/
I work with a pack of incompetent idiots.And thanks to a union and a spineless manager they are impossible to get rid of.I could easily terminate half of them just for all the times they didnt show up for work. And the other half for all the times they showed up +15m late for work alone.Thats not even covering all the basic tasks they cant even preform, all the standing and chit chatting they do. When they do work, they work at a speed slower than someone with half their brain lobotomized.
8You have to let him fuck you and make it really lousy so he won't want it again
I'm extremely attracted to a girl who is good friends with me and I'm too afraid to tell her
1Everybody's different of course. In our position, I know hooking up with random girls wouldn't change my feelings for somebody.I think it's worth trying because even if it doesn't work out and it's awkward, if you really do still want to "just be friends", give it some time and it should be okay.Just be cool about things. If you're like, really serious out of nowhere it'd probably weird her out.You're probably in the dead middle of the friend zone. Something probably has to happen to change that, and I doubt just saying "I've liked you this whole time" is it.I'm just pulling this out of my ass, but if you can figure out a way to do it that... wait...alcohol. you guys need to get drunk and perhaps that might be a scenario...
8how long have you known her?
2girlfriendher 2 kidsewi could never be a step dad, idk how you do it
met a girl at a party and talked to her all night and found out we like all the same things and hate all the same things and then we banged and i went home and forgot to get her number
9checkedGuess again though
I fell in love with a woman several years back didn't do shit to pursue her biggest regret of my life.
8I agree with the anon who said you should offer to be his wing-man. That's a really good way to immediately shift the focus away and put you guys back into a platonic friend situation.
5You are me besides the 4 last lines of faggotry and the fact that I still have 2 virgin friends
He grabbed my neck and slapped my cunt! I liked it. . .
5The school year
4i do watch a lot of film, it's usually experimental stuff or just hype films in theaters like the new Mad Max. never tried softcore porn before, and i can't stand sports but maybe i should try that. maybe i could get into soccer, i feel like it's the one i'd like most out of those. and going on runs is something i did, then kinda forgot about, but really need to start doing again. this is all actually really good advice for me, i'm gonna screenshot and put on my desktop, thanks mane60that wasn't me lolsomeone is just fucking with me/you8dis me
I blame myself for a girl dying of cancer. I was absolutely horrible to her for such a long time. and then she got cancer. and then she died of said cancer. and now I blame myself every day for it and always feel like shit....
9why don't you talk to other people who were there and try to figure it out?did nobody take a picture? if anybody did, reverse image searchwell dude, you never know, you guys might have been too similar and ended up hating each other... be glad you had that experience and realize that nobody is perfect, even that girl... oh yeah, what if she got pregnant that night? losing touch may just have saved your life.
7lol i'm so far in the friend zone she sleeps with me in my bed. Our parents always joke that we are going to get married some day it's thoughts like that; that keep me from offing myself, booze usually leads to us spooning and passing out; i think i had a chance when we were little but now i know that i haven't a snowballs chance in hell, that's why it bothers me so much; i've had so many chances. and i've never acted upon those chances; she's literally gotten on top of me drunk af and asked for sex; we were like 11 and i pushed her off of me; tfw 11 and super small dick, that and i didn't want us to be a drunken accident. now i'm just rambling....
4because you were abused by relatives you should feel guilty being a beta gayfag
I hate chocolate milk
I have crushing depression and my parents won't stop being hurtful and reminding me how bad i am. My medications aren't really helping anymore. If I tell my SO they'll worry so I can't, but they know something is up. I want to desperatly change my ways to keep them and stopped talking so much so I wouldn't annoy them and I want to get mentally better because they always talk about how their exes were crazy. Every time the exes are mentioned it adds onto the anxiety and depression but i know itd be dumb to tell them not to talk about that
7you were drunk and near having sex at 11?where the fuck are you from?when i was 11 i was playing gameboy and skateboarding with my friends
When we play football soccer at school or with my friends they call me names like David Luiz, Fellaini or Charles Puyol I really want to die
I feel severe indifference towards friends and family. They come and go. Basically only care about myself and what I want. My girlfriend is half cool half faggot and listens to shitty alt rock. She is overly sensitive and is overly attached. Not sure if I should tell her to fuck off, or if I should continue to use her for purely carnal reasons. Suprisingly lack the confidence to find another bitch so I'm stuck between a rock and a hard place. Want to fuck like all of her friends, but can't cause if I break up with her they'll all hate me..sorry for poor grammar i'm tried as fuck /b/ros
6Aaron?
4tell her how you feel, if you don't you'll spend the rest of the time you know her thinking of what could be instead of what your reality is, if that makes any sensei'm really drunk believe me it will fuck your brain up.
4That's irrational. Really irrational.Thing off all the people who've been treated like shit and didn't die.Okay, I'll give you your penance:Just fucking be nice to people from now on.If you someone are responsible, give her death a little bit of meaning by making the world a little bit better as a response.But dude, guilt doesn't help anybody. Fuck that emotion.You're free from this shit. You learned your lesson and you're a better person ?. Just let it go.
0I actually am divorced myself, with two kids of my own...
my real actual life goal is to find a way to become rich off of other people, and be really sad and live alone because of it. I want to be sad, alone, and rich. If you asked why i couldn't tell you. it just sounds poetic to me. of course i've never told anyone because they'd think i'm fucking nuts
3lmao waterbury ct, dirty watersi played game boy; just got drunk and smoked while doing it lmao
3I agree with1The reason for religion being a good thing potentially for a child to grow up in a religious community is because of the manners/morality, It's complex but, the best way to put this is the idea of reason in life. Some people choose to enjoy life simply and that is all, but you anon maybe looking for something else. You seem to be confusing religion for reason in life though, although really its self determination that will give you reason if that is what you want.
I was stalked and harassed by an sjw and went to the police and she weaseled her way out of being the bad person. Like this was a real life event, not online. She would approach me and I was trying to get a restraining order. I had to go to therapy because of her and really don't trust anyone or know what to do. She ruined my life just because I made a joke. Now i look for her wherever i go.The fact that tumblr finds this behavior acceptable frightens me.
I always say it's retarded to throw up after you eat but I do it all the time I just hide it well.
I deeply love my wife.
7Wait, are you sure she doesn't like you too?Maybe you should approach it like, "Okay, I want to tell you something important. We've been friends for so long and we're so close. I know we've joked about it before, but I'd actually like to go on a date."who knows, maybe it would work.. you've gotta do it though.. even if she ends up with somebody else, you'll feel a hell of a lot better about things if you gave it a shot.
1She is widowed and I'm recently divorced with kids of my own. I actually really hate her kids but she ignores them most of the time we are together so it works out.
I'm in love with two different beautiful women, both of whom adore me, yet one of them has claimed me and we live together and the other has claimed me because we work together. It fucking sucks.
1I'm glad to hear. C:
4well shit, i was expecting deep south lmao but i don't know much about the east coast in general.well i mean if she tried to fuck you before i'm sure she likes you back, especially considering the spooning part. just get drunk sometime and spill your guts to her, if you get a negative reaction, just blame it on the alcohol. just like T-Pain would want you to do.
2My very first thought was this-- Breathe!You should give meditation a real shot. It seems like everything is getting to you. You gotta change mental habits; that's all life is anyway-- habits.
0How/advice?
7My 4 year gf, who I'm crazy about, lets me fuck her best friend on the understanding it's just a bit of fun.completely head over heels in love with her friendI feel you.
2Well your dubs and quads says to me that you must take the law into your own hands...or don't...idk dude ur the one with dubs and quads maybe you should know how to solve your problem.
i don't love my wife
1i'm sure she loves you too
I miss her
6If you achieve that goal, you're going end up just killing yourself.
33 yo oldfag who recently 'overcame' a reasonably serious disability. Straight A student now after being a dropout 3 times due to social issues with the disability, have a kid, girlfriend is leaving me because I used to/am a dick to her. Feel like a complete loser, probably borderline narcissistic and consider anheroing on a regular basis. But, parents are well-enough off that when I retire I will be well-off. Also a pedo. FML.
5yeah you did.
5of course she likes me, we've been friends for most of our lives; shit i could even say she loves me to an extent, and that is not a bad idea, but she's getting kinda distant as of recently and i feel like if i did that she'd just drop me. and if i didn't have her around, i'd def kill myself
1Think about her taking a rank, raunchy, swampy, corny, smelly diarrhea shit on all of your favorite belongings and all of your favorite foods...then realize she did that to your life in general...should do the trick
I'm depressed and have no idea what to do with my life. Half of this depression comes from being very capable, but not having any passion or interest to pursue a single thing.
6yeah, i kind of figure it's much more serious and not as romantic as it sounds in my head. i wish i had the resources to make a film about it or something. it's just this story in my head that i want to fulfill somehow, it's really hard to describe.
Theres alot i regret about myself. The girl i was with for 5 years cheated on me multiple times and like a idiot, still forgave her even though it was me being in denial. After words i was able to finally tell someone close i was molested for them to laugh it off. Tried many things rid of the pain of circumstances i was in. Then something in me snapped to for some fucking strange reason go on craigslist and do the u thinkable like my ex. Blew 3 random strangers in my rents house after not seeing them for a very long time. Then went to my best friend house. Jacked his parents Greygoose and smirnoff in the middle in the night when i slept over, then fingered his bitch. Sometimes i just think to myself in a fucking hypocrite even though i try to change then something again always brings me back. I stole my roommates weed many timesgood shit to and been robbed for the asshole i am. I need advice big time. Cause i got to admit, i fucked up and regret it at the same time. I really wonder what the hell caused me to do this.i dont evet want to do any of the things i mentioned ever again
7disposable gloves and I shove plastic silverware down my throat then toss in the trash in bathroom, gargle baking soda in small container I keep on hand then no one will ever know
I am not a robvbot.
7It's bad for you and it won't make you lose weight.Google
6I used to want to be an unsuccessful poet in san francisco who lived in an all white studio apartment with windows that blew open with the breeze. Lover upon lover I'd dump, but use as muses still. I'd say they didnt understand me and die aloneThought it was poetic too
8Do things you have SOME interest in until you really like one - then do that. Fuck the pros and cons.
4What the fuck? Who the fuck get's drunk, smokes and almost fucks at 11? How the fuck your parents so incompetent? This is the most absurd thing I've ever read! Were you also paying taxes and complaining about your new boss at 11?
9I don't need to lose weight I'm underweight already. And yeah I know, as I said, I always say others are retarded for doing that. I'm just addicted at this point
The only way I can stop from touching myself every night is by being somewhere other than my house and that rarely happens. Sometimes when I'm home alone I do it more than 3 times and I get so wet that it gets on my couch and I have to wipe it off and spray it with Lysol afterwards.
3ah good, it feels nice to know i'm not the only one with this weird story in my head that needs to get out / be fulfilled. that's an interesting one. instead of white apartment I always pictured a hollywood hills mansion away from all of the others with all marble flooring. Black marble and white marble, everywhere. I love marble. I'm fucking weird.
1I just fear that I would somehow slip into this shallow life against my will, like if my wife would cheat on me or my carear would reach to dead end or my kids would start using drugs and whoring and I would end up a pathetic waste of life.Aren't you better off doing what you know is right because it's right?Perhaps, but can I really favor my 20 years of life experience to thousands year old accumulated wisdom?
9Hey at least your free with your own sexuality...most girls are uptight faggots that wouldnt dare masturbateAlso....tits or gtfo
1Oh sorry you were responding to the person who responded to my post, didn't see.But yeah you're right. Although the "won't make you lose weight" thing varies a lot from person to person, bulimics generally don't lose weight but I'm not bulimic.
5dude she tried fucking me when i was the only boy in her life, believe me when i tell you, i'm a weird baby faced fat dude, i couldn't make her happy; not in this prison i've created for myself, and if i spilled my guts to her i know i'd fucking lose her, literally i feel it deep down every time i muster the courage to try and tell her, and it's those feelings that usually make me change the subject, i'm too drunk to make sense tonight...
7Consider the world the living host to our species. Act in ways to make the host and, vis a vis, our species healthier. It is that simple.
3hahaha not at all, but her parents were an alcoholic and a dope head so we pretty much did what we wanted at her place
8no, i understant what you're trying to say man. but self pity distorts what you really are into what you think you are. Trust me, if she wasn't interested, she would not talk to you, much less get in a bed with you or spoon. unless she thinks you're gay i guess. try losing weight though, for health and self esteems sake. either way, if you really care about her, you would go for it. if you didn't, you were just tricking yourself all along
When's the last time someone was DM anyone want to polish their story telling skills?
, 
Age 12Three years into a gay relationship with my bisexual cousin.Was the submissive one.He got tired of meWanted to fool around with my younger cousinFemale, 6Fast forward 5 yearsShe's 12, fucking my 23 year old friendTells him that me and my cousin raped herFreak outTell everyone he raped me alsoFind out he's been talking shit about me for yearsWhole family is seemingly brokenNever see male cousin againFemale cousin continues to ruin my lifeBest friend is still fucking herGo into a hiatusFeel so alonePick up a drug/alcohol habitTried to transition with hormone therapy after attempting to cut off penis with a pvc pipe cutterNever had sex againWhat a lying cunt though.. I wish I could fuck her boyfriend. He still texts me from time to time.
, 
Rekt/Gore thread:Leggo
9hell yeah
Question about whatsapp :I deleted a gurl from my iphone repertory, what she see in whatsapp ? Can she tell I deleted her ?
0b
she can't tell. she can still see your profile and can send you a message as long as she still has your number in her phone, as long as you don't block her. anyone can see your profile and status if they have your phone number and you don't have any privacy settings set up.
3So she can still see my picture & my last connection time ?Thanks anon
btw, that's pretty much how I stalked my ex when she had temporarily blocked me during a month when we first broke up. she blocked my number, so I'd check up on her on my other phone to see when she was on and what profile pics she was putting up.
8btw, unless you go to settings and turn it off, anyone can see it. the problem is you can't do it per person. its either all your friends or none. the only alternative is to block. but that's easy to see. if I have your phone # and I set a photo for you on my contacts list, that particular photo will come up on WhatsApp when you block me. when its unblocked, the photo that YOU set for your profile is visible instead.
8thanks king of whatsappomg you stalkd on lot on that shit nigga :D
Im drunk as fuck /b/ but want more beer. Should I drive less than a mile to my local gas station?
9Or you could just walk and not risk other peoples life you moron.
Just walk it's not far.
DUI's cost 13000 dollars. Just walk or something.
Walk, you fucking moron.
You'll be fine. Just drive carefully.
9DRIVE! DRIVE! AS FAST AS YOU CAN, THE COPS CAN'T CATCH YOU YOU'RE THE DRUNKY MAN!
9Yes, but do it with your lights off so no one can see you and report you.
9drive or you're a bitch
I dunno man, I've driven drunk plenty of times, but I don't know what your definition of "drunk as fuck" or how well you handle yourself.So I'm gonna go with no.Also, lmao at all these brainwashed faggots in here."no no walk omg DRUNK DRIVING IS THE WURST THING EVAR"Man, it's funny as hell to me that we're on a website that laughs at child murder but society has us soooo fucking brainwashed into believing that drunk driving is soooo terribleMan grow up, everyone drives drunk, you just gotta know how drunk is still fine to drive and how drunk is "no fucking way"
5and in reverse
9Jesus christ, this isnt about making the best ch0oice for humanity. Its about you. Less than mile is moments behind a wheel, while walking you could get raped, captured by isis raped, or killed by bears raped. So i leave it to you. Post pics
2Hey dumbass, the last line you posted is exactly the reason people shouldn't do it at all.Most people are fucking retarded and have no idea when they're too fucked up to drive
5It's not my fault if people are retarded. I know when I'm too drunk to drive. I've driven under the influence of alcohol at least a hundred fucking times, and I've never even so much as swerved out of my lane when doing so.
I just did exactly that and only killed 2.7 people. Don't be a pussy OP.
3this
1Congrats bro, you're a good drunk driver. You deserve an award.
Just walk the 2 mile round trip will take less then 20mins and you will be able to drink more beer because your burned off cals + this way there is no dwi biggest thing you can get is a fine no Jail time or loss of your drivers liance.
DUIs are so fucking expensive, just walk. I've had three friends get DUIs driving less than two miles, you're already "drunk as fuck" so put some music on and take the 10 minute walk.
42.7 peopleWhat'd you do, hit a car with a mixed race couple and their kid?
2Yes most people do drive or have drove at least moderately intoxicated. However, op has proclaimed themselves "Drunk as fuck". If you're Drunk as fuck and it's less than a mile taking the car is pointless. Some people are completely unable to make any rational decision let alone drive when they're highly intoxicated.. I personally know that I can handle driving after around 6 - 8 shots without issues. Some others I know have drove straight into trees and off the road when they were "Safe to drive" after only 4 shots. It's all subjective. As individuals that cannot see or know how drunk op actually is and how op can handle intoxication we cannot say without a doubt op should drive.
15189two words: public intoxication.
just walk, retard
9This.What kind of lazy fuck needs a car to travel two miles?The only excuse would be buying a whole crate. But who does that at a gas station?Get off the couch.
6Nah man, just some fat chick.
kil urself then u can ghost to the store and steal all their doritos
9Generally public intoxication will result in a "Just go home" or them taking you into the paddy wagon to go sleep it off in a cell.
9
9of course you should. dumb ass question.
Honestly, if you *do* drive drunk and have an accident in which property is damaged, or someone is hurt or killed, it's really society's fault for being so automobile-centric that it's routine for people to have to drive to get anywhere. While the police and courts don't share my view, I think that OP is morally entitled to drive to the store if he wants.Good luck, OP, whatever you decide to do.
9If you think you can actually do it without crashing, yeah. Maybe drive slower than usual.
5One mile is not a ten minute walk, and wearing headphones is a great way to get accosted by niggers.
Wait OP before you do anything, look at this picture. If you would hit it, you are too drunk.
9Not worth it OP. I was driving home drunk with my cousin male in the passenger seat one night. I swerve a bit as I exit to his neighborhood from the freeway and I notice those very distinct headlight following me. Right as I turn into my cousin's neighborhood the headlights turn into a nearby street. I dropped him off and pulled out to head home when all of a sudden the lights flash. I pull over on an uphill slope and the pig walks up and asks me the usual questions. Of course in this situation I was 3x over the limit so lying is not an option. I step out and he asks me if I want to do the sobriety tests on the slope or on even ground. I of course tell him that I'd rather be on even ground so he drives my car to the nearest level parking lot and I begin the tests. I pretty much pass them all except the breathalyzer and he tells me I'm 3x over the limit. He asks me if I have someone I needed to call yesterday, I should call them now. I call my younger sister and she picks me up. I should have gone to jail that night, but they cut me a break because I was being polite and extremely lucid despite how fucked up I was. Don't do it OP. Not everyone gets this lucky.
9Three words: Driving While Intoxicated
1Thats four words.
op here. fuck it. I'll stay home i guess. I'll make sure to buy more beer next time
6I'M GOING TO THE PUB IN 10 MINSU JELLY?
1The point was that he could go to jail/get in trouble either way, you dubble cunt.
2Four words: you are a dumbass
6thats three words.
4 that's
9Two words: vehicular manslaughter
2And blindfolded
1His spelling, punctuation, and grammar it's waaay too solid... I'm calling bullshit
3What? People can't be intelligent and drunk?
0Nope.
So /b/ , just found out today I got my girlfriend pregnant.Pic is relatedTell me what you guys think we should name the baby.
thats a man with a penis.im pretending to be a doctor, im sorry theres no cure
1that's a trap though
Slim Schlong-ill
how do you accidental get someone pregnant?
faggot.
1trap fags aren't even trying with the b8 tonight
1Felix a cool sounding name
1I would a Sarina, a Sienna or a Jane. I really would.
1You should name the baby Opi saf aggot.
Abortion
1after the father so OP's name is out of the runningTITS or GTFO
, 
