, 
, 
, 
, 
anyone up for some fun ?be polite pls /fatewinterskeep her out of it just rumble each other in the chat
, 
, 
part onebe me13 in middle school math classSitting near faggot ass friend and his girlfriend#thridwheelingitHis girlfriend is a 9/10I wanted the fucking bitch but she has a taste for blonde faggotsSince I am being the third wheel and am a total weeaboo I am reading my japanese bookTurns out there is a fucking page on sex This will be important laterOur teacher or Cuntface as I like to call her is giving an lectureOnly one of us is paying attention thats the chickMy faggot ass friend swipes the fucking book out of my handFlipmyshit.exeI ask him to give it backDumbass turns to a page I Can't see because his tiny ass hand is covering my eyesHis girlfriend then tells him to stop and she looks at what we're readingHis gf is top fucking student, and a jesus freak but will date this fagHis hand leaves my goddamn faceHe is reading the fucking page on sexCuntface notices that us fuckers are not paying attentionIamboned.mp4she ask what they are readingflipmyshit.exe is not respondingAbout to fucking bang my head on the goddamn desk"You're reading that! In MY CLASSROOM" yells cuntfaceI want to fucking shoot my "friend"Swipes the fucking bookGoddammitSeeing how his bitch is the innocent little christian girl she is she apologizes to meI fucking want to stab him, but I Forgive walking pair of tits and assI tell him he better fucking get that backhe says not to fucking worry, So I fucking worriedI don't give two shits about how but that book is getting back to meSince my friend is good at stealing shit I assume he wouldiwaswrong.jpgAfter class he goes to cuntface and explains what happens I get my book backHolyshitthatwasclose.aviMfw When teacher knows my friend was reading Sexual fucking shit in japanese
walking pair of tits and ass13
She had nice onesTrust me
7/thread
/thread Oops forgot lol
7do you love me now?
Maybe if I use more curses and say cunt a lot my story will be funny
, 
My flat mate got valium as a prescription, natrually he gave me some, I took it and I am blasted back into whatever I'm sitting in. I can't even try to get up. What the fuck did I take /b/?
Valium
Welcome to Benzos bro.
1they make you 1000 lbs?`
4Which blink music vid is this?
5I don't know I saved this clip a while back
4Enjoy it while it lasts. You'll build a tolerance fast. I used to use it to come down from speed, but within a few days it wouldn't really do shit anymore. I got to where I'd alternate between benzodiazepines, opiates, and kratom + benadryl.
5i think its b182, first date
50
5First Date
4I took valium an oxy at the same time an nothing happend to me. Got this shit from back surgery and it just makes me alil drowsy....what do?
What does /b think about Meghan Trainor? Personally, if she didn't dress like a clown then she would be really hot.I my ex-girlfriends roomate is really good friends with Meghan, and I vow to hookup with her this summer. Are you guys all about that bass?
I think she is an average looking chick, who has scored some hits off of very similar sounding songs. That is about the extent of that.
3I've fucked her at an LA after party. Just one weird rude bitch. I pretty much hate-fucked the shit out of her, and nutted in her too. No shame whatsoever.
3Op is all about the bass. but minus the /b/
She's gorgeous.
Shameless self bump. I got some dirt on her if this thread gets enough discussion.
2I'm sure you have.
Why op why must you be a fag? Jesus sucking and fucking cocks is gay. Wake up fag. Pull the cock out time to become a man.
3she looks like she'd have to date someone that works at verison.
2Lying on /b/... tsk tsk tsk
her tiny mouth on her wide face makes her look like a silly goose thing.i dont like silly goose things.
3I really dig her music and she's my favourite new artist.
Ur all a bunch of underage lying faggots
1Spill it, if true.
5/thread
2Sure thing, buddy.
she's hot
1Maybe if you'd spill that'll start a discussion
6Alright, not earth shattering shit but I mean shows how much of a sketchy chick she is.I guess in high school she loved to shoot up dope and my ex told me she once got pulled over by the police for driving drunk, so she fucked the shit out of the cop just to get out of the ticket.I mean her songs are kind of sexual, but these things make her seem like a whore to the tenth power. I'd still fill her up regardless.
3fat sex best sex
0callin bs
0I guess in high school she loved to shoot up dope and my ex told me she once got pulled over by the police for driving drunk, so she fucked the shit out of the cop just to get out of the ticket.There's no way any of that shit happened.
0Oh yeah, that's cool. I knew her in high school, she lived by a horse farm. Every morning she would jack off 50 horses before school while smoking crack.
Quads decides the name. It's female.Like you faggots care
Golden Dorito
1Doge
Ur mum
Tiny
1I'm a pedophile
1So fucking close
1motherfucker, so damn close.
2015not naming your pet Nappa
1Penetrator
1roll * Miss Penetrator
1nice kitty, post moar
1last one
Sex Panther
1Quetzalcoatl, pronounced correctly
thirsty
El Chumacero
Admiral Weenis
3Here you go.
0re-rool
simba
4chan
1you were so close to quints omfgalso name her poppy
1Waifu
6PEPE
1- Squeeky McCatterson- Bebe Kattywhip- LaFawnda Dynamite
Topkek
3awww so small & qt
Saggytats
1Tits or gtfo
1░░░░▓▓▀▀██████▓▄▒▒░░卐░ ░░░▀░░░░░░▀▀▀████▄▒░░░░ ░░▌░░░░░░░░░░░▀███▓▒░卐░ ░▌░░░░░▄▄▄░░░░░░▐█▓▒░░░ ░▄▓▀█▌░▀██▀▒▄░░░▐▓▓▓▒卐░ ░█▌░░░░░▀▒░░░▀░░░▐▓▒▒░░ ░▌▀▒▄▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░▄▒░░ ░▒▄█████▌▒▒░░░░░░░▒▌▒卐░ ░░▓█████▄▒░▒▒▒░░░░░▐░░░ ░░▒▀▓▒░░░░░░░▒▒░▒▒▒▄░卐░ ░░▓▒▒▒░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▒░▓░░░░ ░░████▄▄▄▄▓▓▓▒▒░░▐░░卐░░░░▀██████▓▒▒▒▒▒░▐░
nigger
Vagina
Ronin
ham dick
1George
The destroyer of life
Fuck Buddy
Quads
kike
Roodypoo2
2Kek
Dog
Child Molester
2So close
6fak223332 ▶7
lel
Shidzhu
1Daddy's Little Cock-Mitten
Bitch
Peach Fuzz
Faggot
Muchacha
4this
Osama
dickhead
1uranus
Obama
Transnigger
Little miss fluffytits
Alexis
"Sergeant Dog, with the horrific backstory of just getting back from 'Nam only to find her family has been captured, cooked and eaten by a local Vietnamese restaurant, and vows vengeance to find out who did it and kill them." The whole thing is the name.
Cunt
Tjoflöjt
Sheenie
4re-roll
Drake
1this
Kit Kat
Kevin
Dickhead
Quagmire
BimBam
cat
1QuadsYou might be waiting a while.Anyway, here's my suggestion:Dodongo
Edgelord
1Rolling for you.
1Sega
Doggo
Cat
Mila
1vagina
Mr. Dog
9gag
Caitlyn Jenner
Male cat
le meme
dog
Nigger Cock
Good boy
Friskies
7Step up nigga, name it male dog.
dog
1bebi
bear grylls
dog
Hitler
1stopthisnigger
Cat
fuck
doge
Bruce
1niggerlover2000
Rambo
tool
robocat
waifu
1crawl the warrior the king
Italy
Ragnhild Hornbrytare
1Kitler
1ISIS
Rapunzel
toast
Benedict cumberbatch
Gudrun Schyman
Breivik
Roll for sex slave.
no niggers please
2i can live with that
2It's all about luck my sir
9Why? They all look the fucking sameLucy Wilde has more tit than all these traps combined
9I only see one girl
Rollin
rollin'
Roll
7Nice
Roll for 3 or 7! Dat ass...
stupid whore get
9rolln
rol
9Rolling for non nigger
Rollllllll
1,2,3 or 4 please
Kek
rollll
9c'mon bb
9ara
9okay
5goddammit
9rollllin
roll
0welp no sex slave for me.
9adsfg
i just want sex
9ah yes, please, let me roll for one of these 12 very samey and generically 'attractive' women. jesus christ you can't even see their tits, for shame OP.
rock & roll
One more wouldn't hurt.
rol
Anyone but 10 and 12
5They are Victoria's Secret models that's the whole purpose of enslaving them.
9C'mon!
Winner winner no nigger
rooooooool
5Mahnigga.jpg
9Big money
9Alright
Black girls are disgusting
at this point i don't care wich one but 1,2 would be dandy
2I think dubs entitle me to Candice Swanepoel.
K
Roll
Rollando
rolling
9Rel
Roll for 8
9rsl;;;sl
9I always suck at these....roll....
any
Come on 4, rollem!
rollllo
9ralrlla
meh...
rowlign
Rolin
r0lling
12 get
lemur
Anyone but 10
roll'oll
Roll
yool
rollo
Rollerinoalso dubs get
rawlin
Rull
rawlinn
9roll
Rawl
9rawling for the niggeretteor consolation prize..one of the brunettes
roll
Rolling for 3
9give me azn
roll
8also rolling for Kerr
Rolling
roll
98 get
how do I roll 11 or 12?
Can't really lose here..
9roll
Rawl
9rollerino
1welp, come on, #1. That asshole isn't going to ruin itself.
roll
ohhh shit nigguh
Roll
9I only like 3
9rollss
9roll
Rolll
3 get
rollin
Roll
9rolling
ROLLOLOLOLOLOLOL
Roilling
Roll
9check'd
3 get plox
I will set you free
I want one!
9Come on 3
9show me potato salad
Roll
Right in the pussy.
9rolling
time to free them
roll
9roooooooooooooollllllllllll
best slave
9Roll
roll
9Roll
620515382rollin
9Yep
9Why does it matter which one i get?
roll
9roll for justice!
8 or 3 get
rolllllillll
9rolllllllling
Roll
9Let's do this lads
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN
rollan
fuck bitch
let's have a go. ..
0Ha ha! You got what you have!
Need 3
9Rollaning
2 please.
Roll
1that's good too
Roll
9rawl
roll
8 are you fucking kidding meI get the toothy chinkyfuckcan I get an exchange plz?rolling for 2
a
Roll
I don't want 10 or 11.
9rolling
Roiollllllioooolll
9ROLLING
9Why would I want a trap as a sex slave?
9rooll
9ROLLIN
roll
2 6 or 7 PLZ
Oh boy
tast
Roll
0 get
Gimme 5
Roll
rollin
9testing
Roll
ROLL LELELELE
rawl
rolll
roll
9rollerino
5w00tnice blawndeMuch delightYum.
interesting...
9Wat wat
9Rollins
Rollll
Roll
rolls
give me dat 3.
KERR GET
3awwwww yissssss
ok go
Rolled
3 get
8In the butt
To//
9rollin
1 get
9rolj 1 for alessandra
9esrfd
9rolling 1
9rooooollllllllllll
rollinnn
Henry Rollins
Roll
9rollin, also sauce on 7 please
rollinn
Rollin
Ril
9rolln
1 get
nigga get
9Roll 1-5 please gods
roll
9Swag
Rollin
roll
Roll
Anons my gf is dumping me slowly. She willl send 2 texts messages and then will ignore me all day. She wont come over to me and talk in person. We were going to move in together in 2-3 months. /b/ we were so close to a future together. Forever. Major feels, dropping out of college gonna get some cash and just go idk where. Add to the feels man
keel yoself pls
That's a funny show. Drew Carey lmao
7That's a really good idea. You should drop out of college or kill yourself because you're never going to be happy again.
Oh shes most likly fucking a black guy
blabla my gf broke up, it hurts my feeling aww she doesn't like me anymore aww im cry, i want her love plz /b/ wat doFaggot.
Nobody likes you, you're a burden to society and you're also a whiny bitch. Maybe you should end it all.
7Ok... so your gf is slowly dumping you... and you feel the best way to respond to this is kill your future before it even starts and become a drifter?... Do whatever makes you happy anon.
7It's funny when you can actually feel the summer in here.OP you shouldn't drop out don't let this shit ruin your future. Move the fuck on and forget the bitch, it'll hurt for awhile but give time time.
Try quickloading, the most effective way to do this is to mix ammonia and bleach and press f6 by breathing deeply.
life goes on dude all i can say you'll be sad for a while with time it'll change also do us all a favor and don't do shit..and if you do film it
7Most summer thing in this thread is you newfriend
Op here its crazy you know, Because these feel threads people come on here and make fun of the guy, but when you truely iinvest time and passion into something especially a person having it taken away is the worst pain in the world
7How was your school year son?
7She's doing you a favor buddy. Yes rejection sucks but why would you want to be with someone who is losing interest in you? I'm sure you've lost interest in girls before. You're not the first our last person to have been rejected. The best way to end it is tell her you're unhappy and she isn't giving you what you need, then tell her it's time the two of you parted. And tell yourself that too. Enjoy your single life for a bit, work out, pick up new skills, meet new people.
6Jesus Christ are you sure you're in college?
6haha funny. op is leaving thread anyway have fun talking amongst yourselves
6 worst pain in the worldAbsolutely confirmed for 16 year old faggot. If you think being broken up with by your 1 lyf sweetheart is the worst thing the world has to offer you are truly going to get buttfucked.It may be shitty definitely, but you'll get over it. Don't go drop out of college and start travelling like some dork.
7Nah man you're the Summer
She'sfucking your friends you faggot. Cucked
0pls kill urself on the way outRegards,/b/
6not 16 faggot. Had plenty of long relationships. ID also fuck you up in personinb4 internet tough guy
8What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? I’ll have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and I’ve been involved in numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am trained in gorilla warfare and I’m the top sniper in the entire US armed forces. You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you the fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my fucking words. You think you can get away with saying that shit to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. You’re fucking dead, kid. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and that’s just with my bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat, but I have access to the entire arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what unholy retribution your little “clever” comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. But you couldn’t, you didn’t, and now you’re paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. You’re fucking dead, kiddo.
, 
walk into GameStopsee thiswat do
sneeze on her tits, then get a copy of killzone shadowfall and CoD
9ask here where i can find witcher 3 for pc
How the fuck did this bitch escape her cage?
RIP in piece
She deserved it.
8what
Stannis did nothing wrong.
First the brothel and then the burning scene... I was actually pissed, because it seems they've fall in love with shock value and now they're overdoing it.
So what's the big deal? I hear it was all off-screen again like Sansa's 4 second "rape" scene
If I were stannis I would have done it long time ago... even without this witch-bitch
9why?
this completely fucks stannis as a character. i hope she doesn't get offed in the book, i need to know wtf is going on with her and patchface
2idk i dont watch got just say some words i think were fitting... so did they?
6Do you even know who that is?
0still couldn't keep Sansa from getting raped
0she was too old anyway
7its a book.. gotta keep it interesting
8It's not a book.
rest in peace in peace, cringe
4Stannis did nothing wrong.I bend the kneeHail Stannis.
5who?
9bro shut up.
2It literally isn't.
2She was too cute, Arya couldn't handle that.
9you're not being cute right now
0He had to do it in order to wield Lightbringer. The Lord of Light requires a high quality sacrifice royal blood, family, etc to show your faith and be worthy of forging and wielding Lightbringer to battle.
0fuck you all. I didn't watch it yet, ya cunts.
0dude, RIP means rest in peace - you just said "rest in peace in peace". idiota
6thatsthejoke.tar.gz
HBO broke the fourth wall and swapped out shireen before she got burned. Debate me
1"Swapped out"?
1 Breaking the fourth wall means that an actor looks into the camera and speaks directly to the audience i.e. Goodfellas.
1When was it break ?
Maybe she survived or was actually rescued.
1im cuirous to this as well. when was this?
2protip: stay off the internet until you watch or play whatever show/movie/game is currently hot
3being this literalIts anything that exists between a story and reality
2anon's post still doesn't make sense
6Newfag in this ITT tread!
0shes not a bayblade
Most excellent little girl screams though. Thoroughly arousing.
4truthhe loved his daughter so much. in the books it's probably his biggest weakness. sacrificing her for the good of the realm? Major selfless act. TV fans won't see it this way, tho, and the producers will punish him pretty harshly for this. Any hope that the Mannis will one day be king went out the window with this actBend your knees, faggots
3
0Did anyone else pop a chub, or just me?
7Killing a little girl brutally is "selfless"?
5just you, freak
1yeah, i heard about the rape scene and how shocked everyone was. then i watched it and was like "this is the tamest rape scene that's ever been produced for the screen"
8yep. must be thing on her face..
3This one was on-screen.
4i highly doubt he is the true wielder of the lightbringer
0haven't watched the episode yet but pls noooo
7your mum is the true wielder of cock
5they're only kidding
0no spoilers you cunt wagon
2You see, that just makes me picture a middle-aged woman charging onto the battlefield with a giant severed cock instead of a sword.
7Jon Targaryen is
4ya but Stannis is obvs not Azor AhaiJon Snow is. everyone knows that by now.Martin is an incredible writer. My favourite thing about him is how he can inhabit such contrasting characters so well. He did make a huge, stupid error though. He tried to leave a few hints about Jon Snow's parentage and him being the Prince Who Was Promised so that when the reveal comes in the future people can look back and be like "ahhhhh! we should've seen it!!". Only problem is he made these clues way too brash and apparent, and the truth about Jon is painfully obvious. Like, really, really, clear.Once you read up on R+L=J and some R'hllor theory you'll see how blindingly obvious that Jon Snow is literally the song of ice Lyanna and fire Rhaegar. he's the centre of the entire story, and the key to everything. when they first wanted to make GoT, Martin said they could on one condition: if the producers read the books and could figure out who Jon's mother was. They figured it out. This shows that everything is about R+L=Jthe whole story is about a promised saviour who was denied his birthrights, learnt what it means to be a good king by being raised as a bastard, and fought the demons up north.
4targs are supposed to be silver haired, i reckon jon is a secret baratheon
6Latino newfag.
7Light bringer is not an actual sword. It's a metaphor for Night's Watch. Jon snow is Azor Ahai who "wields" the Lightbringer."I'm the fire in the darkness,I'm the sword that guards the realm of men." Nights watch vows.
4Sacrificing a loved to do what stannis "knnows" is for the betterment of the relm is selfless, if not vain. stanny bo bannys is done next episode.
0Too old.On a serious note though, Arya better get fucking naked next episode.
4wanting to see a plank naked
2not reading the books
4reading poor man's dune
2Well he is a mix, the thoery I heard was a few episodes back when sansa what winterfells catacombs and Peter B came in and told her about the old mad king giving a rose to her aunt, this sparked the idea that Jon is ned's sister's and Egg Targs kid.
4a plankShe had a great figure when she was 16. It's probably even better now
tbh I am so happy with what happened for the story sake.I was expecting another cheap, below the belt shot, when people start to root for Stan and then he gets dun goofed by boltons like Robb did. Instead we get a massive shit and an actual murder most foul commited by a character who was not even supposed to be a major bad guy. It adds so many new dimensions to look at Stannis
9They've been slapping that R+L=J on pretty thick in the show recently.And yet my show only friends still haven't figured it out.
1thatmurder
4Fuck off cock teeth, the only reason to read the books now is so you can act condescendingly to anyone who didn't.buying the books now is like buying all your music as records even though you have an ipod because it came first.
8Underrated post
610/10would buy oysters clams and cockles from
6We aren't gonna get Sansa and Arya nudes. Even though they're both becoming of age now, they'll still be viewed as the younger girls they were at the beginning of the series. There would be moral outrage if one was to show some skin.I'm not talking the kind of outrage like when Ned get's beheaded and makes people tune in.... I'm talking the kind of moral outrage that cancels shows.I have no doubt we'll probably see some skin from one or the other as they get older and do other shows/movies.... but it won't be on Game of Thrones. Also, I guarantee it will be disappointing, both girls are fairly slim and shapeless with little tits and ass....
7i didnt get the 'fire and ice" that way , but that seems right after all  was thinking about ice  walkers , fire  dragons 
46She might not be very good in the face, but she has a great body. Fit, nice hips and thighs, big tits
7the whole story is about a promised saviour who was denied his birthrights, learnt what it means to be a good king by being raised as a bastard, and fought the demons up north.Jesus christ, no. It's not as simple as a redeemed hero children's story. The story is in the name, a Song of Ice and Fire, the eternal balancing of two opposing forces, neither good nor bad. Everything that happens around this idea of opposing forces just mirrors the lack of inherent morality and the fact that no matter what choices humanity makes, these two forces will continue their eternal struggle regardless.I like the quote from Bennerro of Volantis about Dany."Her coming is the fulfillment of an ancient prophecy. From smoke and salt was she born to make the world anew. She is Azor Ahai returned … and her triumph over darkness will bring a summer that will never end … death itself will bend its knee, and all those who die fighting in her cause shall be reborn …"Forget about Dany, think about what Azor Ahai represents in the quote. A force to cleanse the darkness and bring and endless summer. Change some key words around... and,"He is the Nights King returned … and his triumph over light will bring a winter that will never end … life itself will bend its knee, and all those who die fighting in his cause shall be reborn …"Sounds a lot like what the White Walkers are doing. Azor Ahai and his reborn minions are just pawns of the Fire and the White Walkers and their wights are just pawns of the Others/Ice.
8Arya's actress wants to do nudity though.
Ashes to ashes.
7R+L=J explained:15/16 years agoRhaegar heir to the throne is married to Elia Martell the Viper's sisterLyanna Stark Ed's sis is betrothed to Robert Baratheon by Rickard Stark Ed's dadRhaegar gets a major boner for Lyannaeveryone notices, and it's kinda awkwardRhaegar and Lyanna develop a romance in secretthey fall in lovethey run off togetherRobert Baratheon is major butthurt that his piece of ass has run offis convinced Rhaegar has kidnapped her and rapes her butthole every dayRickard Stark and Brandon Stark Ed's older bro, heir to winterfell go to Kings Landing to bitch at King Aerys about how his son stole LyannaRickard is way too brash about it, threatens Rhaegar's lifeAerys overreacts and kills Rickard AND Brandon with fireAerys knows he will have to kill Eddard too, cause he will want revenge and shitwill also need to kill Robert, cause Robert will want revenge is Eddard dieshe demands that Jon Arryn who is warding Ed and Rob hand them overJon Arryn says "fuck you" cause he is a fucking badass and nobody fucks with himso starts the war that ends with the Targaryens usurped and Robert on the throneduring the war, Rhaegar and Lyanna are fucking in a castle somewhereRhaegar gets tired of the same old stank pussy and decides to join in the warmeets Robert at the tridentRobert wrecks Rhaegar with his massive hammer, killing himRobert is wounded thoRob sends Ed to go get LyannaEd goes to the castle, where Rhaegar has left the 3 most pro kingsguard to defend herEd fights his way in, losing a lot of men but pwning all 3 - even Ser Arthur Dayne who is the most badass motherfucker in Westerosonly Ed and Howland Reed surviveEd finds his sister, who has just given birth to Rhaegar's childbut she is dyingshe begs him to protect her babyhe swears to protect babyEd knows Rob will kill baby cause it's of Targaryen bloodEd lies to EVERYONE and says baby is his bastardbaby is Jon Snow
what a waste didnt even get raped before gettin burnedalteast they will have some roasted beef for tonight
5I'm not acting condescending. I just don't understand why people who watch the show argue about what could happen with people who've read the books when the people who read the books already know what happens. Although after this season it'll no longer apply because the show will pass the booksPlus I hardly ever read but the GOT books are genuinely better. pic related
0Citation needed.
1it works on multiple levels, but i like to see it from the medieval perspective. also, in Westeros songs are about heroic dudes and dudettes, often with a lot of metaphors. so Jon is the song
5You basically just tried to justify Hitler's genocide of Jews.
0The world is better without her shit genes
2I would've never picked up on it either to be honest, my form of predictions are baseless and only kinda make sense. This weeks high lights areWWhite haired girl is a lesbian because she held the black girls hand at the endJorah also gave her grey scale by touching herAAnd stannis will lose the winterfell battle because, because even though he sacrificed his daughter he doesn't have kings blood anyway cause he's a little bitch.
5murdering a little girl
2Arya and Jon are supposed to look v similar. Arya is supposed to look most like Lyanna, Jon's mum, who was a mega Stark
8implyingMaisie Williams is a slag irl. She isn't contracted not to do nudes like Sophie Turner and Emilia Clarke at least not yet and she's said on multiple occasions Gendry is the hottest on the show. It's coming next season m8
2it's just a nice and polite girl that likes booksher parents always treated her badly because she contracted a scaly skin plague in her youth which left her face mutilated and made her mother treat her like impure shit, but she still maitained a cute and shy girl personality, always nice and sweet to everyone, loves and respects her parents despite them being cold to her, etcnow her father burned her alive as sacrifice because he worships sone insane fire god that might give him victory in battle because his supplies were sabotagedpic related
9Bones to dust
6to be honest, all is cool, but story on the left can be argued as corny and hard to execute. There is such thing as budget and Hardhome massacre + the whole Arena sequence must have costed shitloads
3cont.Once Howland Reed turns up he hasn't in the books or the TV show everyone is gonna lose their shit. He is the only person in the entire world who knows what went down at the castle, and as such he is the only person alive who knows Jon Snow is Targaryen.
5pretty sure her disfigurement came from a disease, not a birth defect
0that's because you're gay
8some excellent spandex action from sophie in barely lethal. not nudity, but i'll take whats offered
7Blood to light
3Spot on but you're leaving out one key detail that ties it all together.Rhaegar may or may not have actually liked Lyanna, but he definitely knew that he was creating the son of ice and fire when he took Lyanna.He was described as being one way before he started reading up on ancient books, and then changing completely after that. I don't recall if he was happy at first and then solemn or vise versa.Anyway, it's shown that he realized that he had to be the one to do this and he needed Lyanna. He said something to the effect of 'Well I guess I shall have to be a knight'.Rhaegar knew what he was doing, he was trying to create the prince that was promised or Azor Ahai. When you look at the legend of the creation of Lightbringer, you see how he knew it had to be him.
4bookfags, plz contributeis it just me or does arya and gendry's relationship in the books imply they'll get married one day? they're very playfully flirty, and they tease each other so much. also Arya Stark and Gendry Baratheon - their dad's would be proud except for the fact that Gendry is baseborn, but Arya is ugly in the books anyway so
8
4Gendry winds up in Braavos next season, they reunite and bang.Bingo.
is Meryn Trant getting some of that sweet clam next ep?
6this is true, i'm glad you brought it up. i'd forgotten how Rhaegar was a booknerd until one day he read something obvs the prophecy of Azor Ahai and changed his ways.Man, the more I think about Rhaegar the more I wish he wasn't dead. He was so fucking cool...
2Wtf you're retarded man
2I don't know about married but there will probably be a small romance in season 6 or 7 to appease all the fan girls. That being maybe not because Arya will suppose to be a "faceless assassin" by then
3R+L=J is false. Jon Snow is a Dayne.Jamie and Cersei are Targ bastardsAerys fucked Joannathat's why Cersei never married Rhaegarbecause Targs HATE Targ bastards See: BlackfyresJamie is Azor Ahaikilled his father Aerys, making a heavy sacrifice to save humanity the peoplehand chopped off, captured, disgracedreborn in the bath amidst the smoke steam and bath salts, confessing his intentionsbathhouse literally got so hot he passed out"When the red star bleeds,"House Martell sigil is a red sunOberyn dies"When the red star bleeds, and the darkness gathers,"Bloodraven says to Bran, "The strongest trees are rooted in the dark places of the earth. Darkness will be your cloak, your shield, your mother's milk. Darkness will make you strong" Bran is the darkness, joins the Children of the Forest/OthersJamie, the Champion of the Light and Bran, the Champion of Darkness, fight it out in one of many Great Wars in the struggle of two opposing forces, Ice and Fire, in the search for balance in the realm. "When the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt".Fuck you, better than your theories.
4in the book the next one arya is posing as an actress and seduces raff the sweetling, then crosses his name off her list. perfect opportunity for tits there. but in the show, we have meryn trant in a pedobrothel instead, so i doubt we'll see the puppies.
2Arya was 12-13ish at that time
0that's TV, though. I'm convinced Martin has been planning their marriage since book 2
6Ooooh I got angry at you and now I feel bad cause you seem senseable. TV is just much easier to consume than a book, that's really it. The books may be great but the TV show is watchable and R.R. martin will die before he finishes writing them anyway.
6demn bullshit
1so? people get married and poon at like 14. arya will be older than that by the the end of the final book
1Stennis isn't Agamemnon, she's not Iphigeneia and the fire bitch isn't Artemis
3She dies in the book they got the scene when they interviewed grr Martin
3She is alive and well in the book.
9So far.
6you're joking, but there's actually theories out there that Tyrion is Aerys' son xDalso, Jaime is definitely gonna do something majorly heroic before the books are out. He already saved countless lives by killing Aerys and the Hand who were gonna blow up Kings Landing with wildfire.Also, part of the reason Cersei hates Tyrion so much is cause some dude maybe a maester, i can't remember told her of a prophecy that her brother will kill her. she thinks it's Tyrion, though it''s obvs gonna be Jaime.Jaime will kill Cersei, mark my words.
7There's many characters dead in the show that aren't in the books.
9You thinking too much again nigga.
9It's quite obvious that she's going to die relatively early in book six.Mel is obsessed with sacrificing her, and her new hope at AA just took a load of daggers to the back and is in need of a good old reviving.
5That was Maggi the Frog, aka Maigi, the same kind of witch that killed Drogo
9she's gonna burn in the books too but not in this way since she and Melisandre are still at Castle Black. prolly the red witch will burn her to revive Jon, without Stannis knowing.
7implyingJon Snow, Arya, Sansa, Daenerys and Tyrion are the shows 5 un-killable characters sansa to a lesser extent. They're all crucial to the ending and one being removed would fuck everything up. Plus they're coincidentally the 5 most loved characters too. Killing any of them would cause some of the fan base to rage quit.Anyone else can die if the writer chooses so.
9David Benioff interviews George rr Martin to find out what happens next, this was one of the scenes he said needed to happen
8No need, just look at her. If not in GoT, then in future movies or shows. She's craving to be a future slut star. This is inevitable. Not sure about the Sansa actress tho.
Stannis could have at least given her a guy to shag before being burnt alive.
6but jon, dany and sansa are shit charactersI'd love to see all 3 die
6Arya and Tyrion are the only Canon confirmed not-going-to-die, since they Martins wife's favorites.
5I'm not joking, actually. And Tyrion is Tywin's only true son, as referenced like 4-5 times in the book by Gemma, dreams, etc.I thought it was Maggie the Frog that gave her than valonqar bullshit?Also, the valonqar isn't about a Lannister, it's about the Hound. Gregor's little brother. Since Jaime doesn't show, she has to use Robert Strong as her champion. The High Sparrow calls the newly reborn Hound, the Gravedigger Monk as his Champion who kill Gregor and subsequently Cersei because she lost.
7I agree. I personally hate them too but they definitely won't ever die
6As faggoty far fetch as it sounds, I actually like this theory better.
How's about that theory that Quaithe is Shiara Seastar, former lover of Bloodraven, confirmed practioner of black magic, seen by Bran performing ritualistic sacrifice in Winterfell, working either with Bloodraven or against him in order to get Daenerys across the sea.Also Daario is Euron Greyjoy.
2it seemed like gendry was trying to get frisky, but she was too immature to understand and kung fu'd him
7
5You watch too many of Preston Jacobs videos and can't come to your own conclusions.
5Daario=Euron=Benjen is the worst fan theory in the world. I want to stab anyone who mentions it.
4That and Alt Shift X
1The Benjen thing is bullshit, I can't understand where any bit of that came up.But theres too much confirming Daario = Euron
6I think it's clear that Arya liked Gendry. They made it too obvious. I don't know if Gendry ever realized though. Plus 3 years would've passed by now. 4 by the time the next season starts. Arya might not feel that way anymore
9Regarding the Hound bit, the last we see of him in the book I guess the show as well is him incredibly injured with a lame leg. The gravedigger which is widely assumed to be the Hound in disguise is also seen to be walking with a very heavy limp. I don't see him being in any condition to fight zombie Mountain in a battle.
1Benjen had a lot of potential I think most people just wish they did more with him
0Faggots, she is not dead.Read the books.
62didn't they almost end up banging in one scene of the books?
0How the hell do you survive a burning?
0When you really dig into it, pretty much everyone who's ever 'gone missing beyond the wall' ends up being someone important.However at least half of all of those people were named Brandon
0Too soon
6nice evidence, faggotdany is gonna be pwned in the next couple of books. mark my words.i was one of the few fags who read the books as they came out. ed stark dies in book 1, sure, but until that point we all thought he was the main dude. how wrong we were
8Why not? We've seen the power of other religions, why not show us the strength of the Seven? Robert Strong is an extreme abomination of the faith and the High Sparrow and EVERY will see that. Cersei exclaimed Gregor was dead and even had maesters confirm it. Remember, there is NO MAN in the seven kingdoms that could match Gregors size and strength.Suddenly, someone matching Gregors size and strength that can't speak, won't remove armor, and probably acts like a zombie shows up. They'll know Cersei is lying and the power of the faith will be revealed as the Hound smites the abomination that is Robert Strong.
1Again, 12 years old, and still thinks boys are ucky
0Little lizard faced cunt.
6Dunno, but she is alive in the book.
3So is Barristan.
1nah, gendry isn't into her in the books. she's totally into him, though, but she doesn't really understand her feelings for him. on the surface she thinks hes a big dumb brute, but her inner feelings totally manifest in her abuse to him/dragging him along.he's kind of oblivious, though. he just calls her out on her shit and wants to bang metal hammer all day protip cause he's Robert's son and Rob favoured warhammers
3Ned is alive in the books too. Until the flip of a page.Get it yet? They're saying that she's 'going' to die.We know she's not burned yet.She's going to be.
OYSTERS CLAMS AND COCKLES
1Well they end up on the ground with him on top of her, then it cuts to 20 minutes later with her dress now torn.
8I suppose thats true. But as far the books go they touch more on those forgotten people and old tales. I wish the shows writers would do more flashbacks, maybe some of Ned and Roberts old days. I know it seems like serious fanservice but I dont think the shows writers are doing anyone any favors by brushing over the meticulous details GRRM is known for.
8cause he's robert's son blah blah blahOR BECAUSE HE WAS A BLACKSMITHS APPRENTICE LITERALLY HIS ENTIRE LIFEFucking idiot.
Ok, why didn't the dragon just fly in, burn everything to the ground and only the fireproof queen would have survived, both of them unharmed?
5But he wasn't. With the 5 I listed on the other and, the show literally can't end if any of them die. It would just be endless war and fighting for the throne. For example how are they going to stop the white walkers without Daenerys' army+dragons with Tyrion commanding them?As much as i hate Dany and Jon Snow they aren't dying. Neither will the rest
3Jon Arryni love the way you explained that. the books need to be rewritten this way.
0What is symbolism
8She isn't fireproof. The pyre scene was a result of blood magic.
8She is not fireproof.
8Because plot? That would have killed Jorah, Daario, Tyrion, Missandei. They flew off because Drogon has 4 spears in his ass and he was going to die.
0fuck stannis
8Also, while she was having her moment with the dragon before a javelin hit the dragon, why didnt they just throw the javelin at the queen instead of the dragon?
0But the bestpart is gonna be next week when Arya gets her ass ploughed in the Whore house.
30But she dipped her hand in boiling water and nothing happened even without blood magic.
8
3Holy shit there's a fucking bear in my bathroom.I wonder if I should pee on it to kill it.Oh wait, let me KILL ITS MOTHER RIGHT IN FRONT OF IT FIRST.That will make it die faster.
6It wasn't boiling, it was just hot.
Anyone else think the High Sparrow is Howland Reed?
3It doesn't. Stannis sacrifices her own daughter for the greater good. He ALWAYS does what he has to do.
Just copying what i posted in a different threadThe Red Priestess is trying to force Stannis to fit the Azor Ahai prophecy, even though we know good and we'll it isn't him.Lived under the red comet?CheckBorn of salt and smoke?well, he did have a smokey ritual on a beachDoes he have a flaming sword named lightbringer?he had a fake flaming sword that definitely was not light bringerDoes he have dragons?Well, he is from Dragonstone...Has he made a sacrifice of someone close to him? yeah, his fucking daughter.Is he of the Targaryian bloodline?nah.Mel believes Stannis is the hero of prophecy, but is just trying too hard with the wrong guy.
, 
go faggots
Trips open the case.
gfgffdfgdfjhg
, 
, 
, 
tell me a spoiler
the kid was a ghost THE WHOLE TIME
5Tyler Durden was a figment of the Narrator's imagination THE WHOLE TIME
5Kevin Spacey was Keyser Söze THE WHOLE TIME
0oh wait, it was the other way I thinkbruce willis was a ghost THE WHOLE TIME
Arino was lying about his name THE WHOLE TIME

The titanic sank.
9THE WHOLE TIME!
90pretty much this
9I've renamed my smartphone as Titanic and now it's syncing
5Lighted Spoiler
5It took a crane to get this spoiler out THE WHOLE TIME
5Vader is Luke's father
Everybody did it.
the whole time THE WHOLE TIME!
7THE WHOLE TIME!
Ciri dies
Snake dies
, 
, 
roll fags
OP stops being a fag
Jesus finaly come back but as a transgender porn actres
3me being happy
all niggers die
4rolling for this, pic related
3:
3We go back to the year 2015
roll to finally have sex
Religions finally admits to be a bunch of nonsense and disappears from the world
5
5Throw his ass out, hes a nigger
39/11 is b-b-b-BACK BABY and it's better than ever!!!
niggas disappear
I get laid
First OP that is not a faggot
You realize you're a nigger
3I scratch my butt
pedos have the same rights as the gays
Nuclear Warfare.
I get laids
rolling for eradication of 'murica
Americans will bribe their President through kickstarter
Muslims go out of europe
Re-roll for 9/11 reunion tour
9Shit
Niggers win
The Nazis are pardoned by the U.S
3The WoW killer is finally released.
year of the linux desktop
Nous, a super-intelligent life form gets rescued from the african jungle and starts to breed his race of genetically superiour human beings. Will the destroy us or will we peacefully co-exist as their pets??
yours truly returns, to rid this world once and for all of the untermensch
3Anne Frank comes out of hidding
3Everyone discovers god really isn't real*le fedora tip*
Tool releases the new album
niggers extinction
3OP finally gets laid
be me18last nightgirl i've been playing games withpicture is 6/10 nerd on skypeplaying minecraft cuz my imagination is bestanywayshe's 36one autism kidone ADHD kidwhateverShe has an asshole boyfriend aparentlyHe left for a few weeks to stay with his cancer parentBe on skype, not in call because studyingtalk about how cute she isshe's digging it"Oh, anon, well I didn't know you thought of me that way"she took the baitmy trap was sprungeasing my way into sexytimesshe starts getting more aggressively flirty as wellpic relatedStart getting sexier, talking about my bonerShe wants it in her mouthShe just keeps telling me how much she loves suckingShe's probably lyingjust go with itEventually shit kinda gets realstarts begging for me to rub myselfI'm okay with thisproceedtease herdo my businessAfter we're done she says she has a surprise for meBut I have to wait until after her kids go to sleepSureCont.
6lurking
5Typing it out atm, thanks for being patient
6Will post more skype pics if people want, i don't care
OP walks dinosaur after spaghetti incident.GG OP.
5Sorry, doesn't end that way, friend
0you will post skype pics attached to more bits of the story and we're cool.
4I'm not your friend, guy!
, 
Okay lurkers.Let's set it straight. /b/ isn't as good as it was a good few years back. The issue is most of the cancer doesn't even realise it's fucking ruining /b/. So let's round this up. You should leave /b/ if:You think this is the home of anonymousYou have a deviantart which isn't all hentaiFuck it no, just if you have deviant artIf you scream MODS If you don't accept that trap threads have and will always be hereIf you have ever posted or started a "rate my dick thread"If you consider /b/ to be the darkest place on the intetrnetsIf you're genuinely under the age of 18There are so many more and if you want to think of any just fucking post them but in the meantime if you fall into any of these just fuck off out of b.
if you shitpost
Wow, and here I thought I was cancer. Turns out I'm just not a retarded fucker
4not shitposting on /b/Im also going to say if you dont at least lurk other boards you should get off 4chan
4If you are don't accept that loli and shota threads are here to stayif you have a problem with pics you shouldn't share threadsyou do this 2
4chan might need its own color of ribbon if it manages to beat back this cancer.
1Rate my dick1
bananafags who don't realise it was tumblr who started the banana trend.
4If you don't accept that trap threads have and will always be hereThat isn't true. Trap threads started around 2013.
4You have a genuine problem with racist threadsYou are a summerfag
If you post 9gag cancer on 4chan.4
If you don't accept that trap threads have and will always be herehave and will always be herehave always be hereOP is a faggot as usualinb4 merely pretending to be mentally disabled
Nothing will ever be as good as you think it used to be. Welcome to the world of aging and nostalgia. Just accept the warm embrace of change and it'll all be over soon.
4do I have to break one of these rules or all of these rules, in order to leave /b/?inb4 under 18I'm 20 in November
4Join our ranks.IRC: chat.freenode.netChan: #Spookers
4Aww is someone butthurt not everyone likes their fag porn? Oh no! and they don't believe the bullshit about them always being around? How dare they.Dude just get on imagefap, look at some skinny dudes' assholes and come back when you've sated your addiction for an hour.
I'm a homestuck faggot. Do I have to leave?
7setting up threads just to pretend to Triforce.Setting g up fifteen different anti-atheist threats on the same page. Creating threads for dubs, trips, etc.
4nigger pretty much all of the oldfags came here under the age of 18, yourself included i would wager.Also, I blatantly admit to being under the age of 18, and surely not all of the underage /b/& can be terrible. Obviously, the 10-14 year olds are, but what about 15-17? Or are we niggers as well?
0& B&!
4I see this same exact thread every year and you faggot are all the same.
5Don't fap to traps, i'm just not one of the retards who stops others being able to enjoy it. Same with shota and loli. Not my thing but i'm not going to ruin a thread just cause i don't fap to it.
make threads that say dubs decides or something of the sort with no intent of delivering
0im okay with underage lurking but not posting guess its a right of passage thing
0There's a reason why threads that delivered are "best of 4chan" screen caps.
4under 18I'm gonna have to disagree with that one. Almost all of us started here under 18.
00Y'all got the Banhammer treatment.
4If you didn't lurk for at least a year before you started to post
8fuck off cunt
4OP confirmed faggot, and newfriend.If you don't accept that trap threads have and will always be hereTraps weren't a part of /b/ in 2006 you homo.
2FUCKING QUINTS
/b/ fucking sucks.And not in the "I MISS OLD /b/ WAHH" kind of shit, just that it's fucking cancer.To start off, loli threads. Otherwise known as how to post pictures of children getting fucked without going to jail. You're fucking disgusting, you pedophiles.Trap threads. "It's not gay!" You're jacking off to someone with a dick getting fucked in the ass. That's gay.YLYL Threads, more like the shittiest stolen screenshots of black twitter. Congrats.Gore/rekt threads. Oh shit, you said you can handle pictures of dead people! You're pretty fucking edgy, man. You're so much cooler than us. Just kidding. Fuck you.Wincest/R34 threads. Put together because I don't know what's fucking worse. Jacking off to pictures of cartoon characters or pictures of porn with half-assed text boxes of "Gee golly big bro, your penis is in my vagina!" Fucking sad.Dubs threads. Holy shit, there's a series of two identical numbers next to each other in a nine-number ID! Fucking groundbreaking.TL;DR, loli is for pedophiles, you're a faggot if you watch trap, you're a virgin pathetic beta for watching R34/Incest, grow attached to a 17 year old girl, but Chloe Grace Moretz will never know or care you exist. Taylor Swift is attractive, sure, but not in the holy-shit way. And Suzy isn't the "QUEEN" of /b/. Faggots.
7Valid point. I'm just saying that if you aren't going to deliver, don't bother posting.
2holy shit fucking checked
2Good thing that's what I do.
2Oshit Quints... Just saiyan.
4What? No shitposting?
9Pretty sure it started with that Bill dude from that German band around 08.Weird fetishes is like the bread and butter of /b/ though.
2
4/b/ is all about funposting.
5Wincest/R34 threads. Put together because I don't know what's fucking worse. Jacking off to pictures of cartoon characters or pictures of porn with half-assed text boxes of "Gee golly big bro, your penis is in my vagina!" Fucking sad.Haha that shit is true as fuck
5and you're a faggot for coming here
5Please stay in meatspace, normalfag, you have nothing of worth to contribute here, you will never entertain us the slightest.
015?!You are undervaluing the niggers. Go lurk 9gag you faggot.
4implying /b/ was ever goodmfw I have no facea few years back it was the same shit holeconclusion: lurk moar faggot
2tfw you reply to my post and get quints
7any one of any of the rules posted in the thread.
2newfag detected
5b is the home of loli and shota for 4chan, it's even in the fucking rules set out for the board haha
5And what's with these crazy people spitting in the face of God by not having sex only in the missionary position for the sole purpose of procreation? Seriously the sexual deviants need to leave.
4I lurked for 6 years before I started posting
4 tfw have been here while /i/ was still alive tfw most anon have migrated else where tfw popularization & social media ruined my /b/ tfw /b/ was actually good once tfw didnt believe previous statement at one point tfw only go to /b/ for YLYL threads tfw all of you reading this are newfagspic kinda related
Moot is God Moot is life. If ya don't know who Moot is get the fuck off 4chan
015-17 year olds are maximum nigger.lurk moar
If you didn't at least partially read the long section of text known as "The Rules of the Internet."
4most important rule right here.
25samefaggin
More of ops pic
1and then there 're these retards. Came to /b/ November 2014, calls "newfags".
4mfw I remember the loli board when I was 14How the time has passed.
5wrong i cam september XDDDD
7I feel like i should have the right to fuckin report you just for that
8guess im good
9either lurk until you turn 18 or preferably just leave.
6Gtfo dave6
2summerfag
2I second that

5oh shit, youve busted my ass.my spectacular ruse has failed
I remember when we made Chocolate rain the famous nig he was. If you dont know the histry of b then get off
5Gore/rekt I don't go in but curiosity is why people view them, and they feel stronger when they do due to being able to view it and not sissy out. R34 people watch cuz normal porn is so limited, toon can be anything. The rest I can agree with. Tldr: some threads have scientific explanation to their purpose.
8Show some goddamn respect.
4if you didn't even know there was text boards
4 isn't as good as it was a good few years back gets said all day, every day for years/b/ was never good
6Kek
Do people really think rule34 and getting off over girly boys are the same? One groups admits,"Yeah this entertains me". The other swears up and down that they are straight as they jerk it to men.
4am I an oldfag now?
4You know how I know you are full of shit.trap threadsThat shit has never been here ,far among few, until a few years ago. Piss off you cunt
25Taking the bait.
Nope. Oldfag here. End man-ass. End man-ass now.
7This. true.
3You gonna say loli was recent here too, now? Retard.
9you didn't even use that meme correctly nigger you ain't no fuckin oldfag
9Lol no they weren't, they used be around way earlier. And rememeber Linetrap, Bailey Jay? That was a crossdresser who eventually became a transsexual pornstar, and that was years ago.
8you fucking fag, the only reason i came here back in the day was because we INTENTIONALLY fucked shit up. you are the fucking cancer you softcock cunt.trolls trolling trolls trolling trolls you fucking cunt.i bet you havnt even heard that line before.
9
Hay guise I herd dis place wuz cool 4 talking about pokeman. Who wanna talk about pokeman?
4some threads have scientific explanation to their purposeThis gave my cancer, cancer and AIDS.Have you even graduated first grade?
5Images of traps is not the same as a trap thread posted every half hour.
2Moar
5oh man look at these tears flowing all down my face and stuffgot more streams of liquid sadness on me than what I thought was possiblethe shit i put up with
0Ask me anything you need to know, I'm a pokemon master.
0Go to /vp/
You know who.should leave? The faggots who post "this is bait" pics. If someone is legitimately retarded then let them fucking fall for it. Don't they realize they're ruining the fun?
1agreed. Don't ruin the fun that can come with trolls.
4that entire post Are you 12?
6U wanna b DA very best? Liek no mudkip evar wuz?
5THIS is everything I've been trying to say. This is the fucking truth
8it used to belong on /l/ retard
3How??? Its all gnarled and twisted...
8The character has been around since the 80`sI'm no to positive on it's appearance on 4chan, but I think 08-10 So it's older but still a shit ass excuse for pedophiles.
3
4not accepting trap threads makes me cancerimplying
0Uhm, those 'images of traps' were already posted in dedicated traps. But yes, it grew bigger, which indicates a lot of people actually like it. Also there's like a 150 threads on /b/ at once, who cares if three of them are about traps? There's also a lot of multiple ylyl, loli or gore threads going on at the same time, and they don't get spammed with pigeons and scat all the time.
4/b/ the darkest on the internets? hah, i bet its not even in the top 10%
, 
ITT we pretend we are tumblr
triggered
Pretty much how /b/ is nowadays.
, 
, 
insomnia ruined my life. How many hours of sleep you get at night? Me, im lucky if i get 6. Idk what do... i feeling super sad now, i have no1 tot talk to; im feeling super lonely, hopeless, depressed and tired of being tired all the time :
try smoking weed
7I get 7 usually, but it is always alcohol induced.Why are you so sad, talk about it anon, there are always /b/rothers here.
7pfft, when I was studying my degree I lived off 3 - 6 hours of sleep per night. Just smoke some weed and get on with life bro.
7Getting 6 hours sleep a night is nowhere near insomnia you pussy....
7I sleep from 4am to 6am everyday. Then I take a nap from 11:00pm to 1:00am.
Um..this post kinda worries me. I consider 4 hours to be good..been that way for year now
776 is insomnia? i run on 2-5 hours of sleep everyday just because I'm trying to make money..
You're not the only one...I have insomnia too, its terrible.Try melatonin, it works wonders. I hear ZZZquil is decent too. I wouldn't recommend benadryl as you will become dependant. If you can get with your doc and get actual sleep meds though ie ambien, thats probably your best bet.Weed works for some people and not for others....definitely doesn't work for me, but if it works for you, go for it.
7well six is good. i get usually around 5 hours of sleep
7six hours of sleepOP, you don't have insomnia. If you're tired through the day after six hours sleep, either you're not being active enough or you need to eat more protein.
7I have insomia. In a week I am lucky if I get more than 12 hours of sleep
4What do you do 1am to 4am?
33 times a dayi fall sleep kinda easy, but wake up after 5-6 hours,,,, then cant falll back sleephave tryed trazodone, difenhidramine last night, chlorphenidramine, and Clonazepam, which works , BUT i dont like taking meds25 to 6,,, i feel and look like shit every day2srlsy,,,, and befor that?5but u prob can sleep at least 8 if u want to. I cant sleep more than 6 even if i take drugs
Also, if you spend a lot of time on the computer, download f.lux. It's a program that automatically changes the brightness and color intensity on your computer when the sun goes down, so your brain can generate melatonin. And if you spend a lot of time on your phone before bed, turn the brightness down all the way, or simply don't get on your phone at all. Studies have shown the blue light from phones/computers/tablets etc disrupt the circadian rhythm in the brain.
7Ask any one with real Insomnia, they'd be very happy to get 6 hours a sleep, shit some times even half that.Here is some crap you can do to help you get to sleep.Work outBlow off that extra energy you have, to help make you tiredDon't drink red bulls, coffee etc.That stuff fucks with your system, making it harder to sleep.Calm the mind before bed.Least an hour or two before bed, don't play game, don't do shit that really engages the mind.
0Mostly just watch TV or browse here. Not much to do, I could go outside but for what, everyone is asleep so what's the point? Plus I live in a heavily wooded area and spiders scare the shit out of me.
7go to the doctor and get a script dumbass
7exercise helpsyou're gonna feel so stupid once you find out how easy it is to fall asleeplet me guessyou're a white guy in his early 20s who had high anxiety and a victims complex?
hello thaicat
7I'm somehow jalous. I basically piss away every free hour by sleeping, always feeling tired. I think it's depression and I feel terribly ashamed of it bc typical "easy life middle class white boy"-"disease"
5weed makes me sleepy, but my problem is waking up soon AND waking up 3-4 times in the night,,, 4for how long? ive been like this for years2i exercise hard 30-45 minutes 5 times a week. Eat 5 times a day, have enough protein, take vit suplements, take a little melatonin at night, dont use computer / lights 2 hours before bed, dot take naps in the day, ETC
74 hours every 2 days
4I went through a period of power napping. Had way more energy through the day/night and achieved shit loads in a week. I stopped when I hit a depressed slump and started sleeping 12 hours a day. Currently on a normalfag 8 hours a night. May have to try power napping out again.
Try some ASMR videos, i know that shit made me fucking laugh too but it actually works for me, It's worth giving a try
6 hours is pretty good tbh. but everyones body needs different amounts. generally when i dont have shit to do i sleep something around 4-5 hours, wake up and then go back to bed for another 3-4 hours. last night i got 2 and im about to take a 2 hour nap. pretend to float. i can't describe it any other way. but just pretend your body is floating through time and space, nothing else matters, and just concentrate on your body floating from an outside persoective. thats what helps me sleep when i absolutely cant. good luck op you faggot
6calling bullshit on your work out6 hours of sleepinsomniaare you aware that there are people on here with real problems? like real insomnia
74-5 hours a night is plenty for me and I usually dont sleep at all on a Saturday because drugs and I'm still able to put in 45 hours a week at work and not cry like a faggot.
2damn man, u take meds or something? what ur doc say?0see 6I also quit coffe, coke, caffeine, redbull, etc, like 9 years ago
7I think you may be sleeping, or trying to when you aren't tired. At night when you lay down if you realize you aren't tired get your dumb ass back up and stay up until you fall asleep at your desk. Right now I am working third shift, just got off work and will be heading to bed whenever the fuck i am tired.
6 Hours a night is a normal amount. You say you have insomnia because you only get 6 hours, Jesus fucking Christ! the retardation of people with the internet is worrying.
I have trouble sleeping too. Everybody needs different amounts. I get from 4-6 hours per night, but it is restless. Alcohol doesn't help, even if you get smashed. The quality of sleep is not good. Pharmaceuticals can help, but not in the long term. Try to stop watching tv or looking at displays/devices 1-2 hours before laying down. Reading helps some people to unwind. Exercise, and being fit in general, supposedly helps. Meditation or relaxation practice helps me when I finally lay down in bed.Importantly, talk to your doctor if you can't sleep well. I hope some of this helps.
I pretend I'm in a coffin, dead, when I can't sleep. Eventually I just drift off.
, 
Who has never had any female physical contact here?
I just fucked my 8.5/10 gf before going to work this am. The sex was amazing. Couldn't have put me in a better mood.
One time I paid a mean jewish mom to spit in my mouth before she crushed my testicles with high heeled shoes on, so i guess that counts.
I did.
I'm a regular whoremonger.
i am married to a beautifull women who has lost pretty much her entire sexdrive. I would rather go back to your situation OP. this is pure torture
2get some Molly, acid, shove it in her ass, you'll get the fucking fuck you want
2Sad to be you, Dante.
Op here
Me. And I'm expecting my wizard powers any day now.
Ill just leave this here
7
Does anyone has more of this trap? I can't find anything, but I'm sure there is other stuff
Please?
Summoning all Belgian traps be they experienced or not, looking for a hookup ranging from casual sex to full sissyfication and enslavement. Warning, the latter implies permanent impotence and incontinence!
9TS Esmee from NY.
1Me too, if you find a good belgian trap, tel me :
7this
0Have you found anything yet? I had contact with a rather short 24 year old guy who really wanted to try it out, we planned a date be he pulled out a few hours before we were supposed to meet...
1mmm the latter sounds hot!
1poopy daddy?
You have exactly 10 seconds to explain why you don't go to the gym to painstakingly develop and reach your maximum evolutionary potential and to attain a perfect aesthetic physique like this natural athletic alpha male.Pic related
a because i'm not a faggotb because i have a massive cock and no frustrations to fixpick one
6jeff pls go
6because i use wholistic army standard training at home. get good faggot
6Cant take steroids like the guy in the pic also no money to eat 10 sheep a day and take 20 different suppliments.ill pass
6this guy has a great body but his face is so fucking gaygay for sure
Because sometimes, Jeff Seid, no matter how much you work on your physique.... sometimes, you're destined to only come 5th
6go to gymyou become the exact same shit you used to be after 2 week pausego to any other sportyou stay fit/thread
I have a jobI don't have a small dick
I have a full time career. Fuck the gym I can work out at home.
6maximum evolutionary potentialunlike you i am not a Pokemon
6Because I'm not fat.
I don't want to look like an old towel in my 40s.
6I do go to the gym.Sick of being that tall lanky skinny kid, so I went to the gym, started at 55kg, now I'm 67kg. Got some progress.SLOWLY BUT SURELY.
9/thread
9what do u mean u cant take steroids?it would take u like 5 minutes to find someone from silk road to sell u steroidsand when youre on steroids you dont need any xtra suppliments, most suppliments just increase your protein synthesis but steroids do that aswell, only steroids are about 500x more effective.you dont need caffeine pills or anything while on steroids, u will have ridicilous amount of energy.so what the fuck are you talking about faggot, just buy a 10 week cycle for like 500-600usd and u probably save money in the end, definetly will get massive results.
3Fat9Lazy1no concept of logic3Insecure4delusional1no concept of logic
75'8-5'9LOL fucking manlets
6because I dont need my body to be fit to be self confident and I have better things to do1.80m/70kg here
6pic relatedJeff Seidlololol, I browsed /fit/ for a minute - he uses steroids. There's no way any btard has the natural test levels to do that without eating clen and trenning hard.I spelt clen and trenning correctly, that's no typo, felt I needed to explain that since were on a different board.tl;dr OP is a fag
6a little bit metro for a man. what are you compensating for? small dick? douche attitude? and why aren't you qt the gym you seroidal freak of nature? if i looked alike a botched hulk, had an obession with alpha role, and was a closeted gay, i'd just kill myself
8Indeed. Fucking manlets.
5180 cm/70 kgyeah seeing as youre a woman taking xtra testosterone would be bad for you.
8west german female athletes
I do a half hours worth of pushups and pullups a day from home....also my apt complex has a small gym where I do some bis and tris......bout to take my pre workout shortly actually.
Shits expensive, brah. I got bills to pay, and my time is a valuable commodity.
8what if i tell you that I'm a male
0nah west german athletes werent that skinny
3Nailed it
9i would laugh180cm and 70 kg LOLgain some weight atleast you must be weak as fuck
I actually have an appointment to join the gym today.enjoy being fat sacks of nigger shit
2Only legit excuse here
6i have enough money, so i just buy my potential and my happiness.
3faggot
6because it doesn´t matter
9Have you forgotten your legs?
6I weigh 128lbs and I'm 6'2I'm pretty much perfect imo
RIP Candyjunkie
1I dont care much about legs, there I said it! The way I look at it...my legs hold me up when I stand and walk. No need to work them.
1forgotten legs?gee who does that
6sorry hun but both men and women find asses the most attractive thing about the other sex.so start squating bitch tits
U think Jeff is Alpha?Bitch pls
6Wow. So Hot.
Because I do go to the gym, I'm just not a cuts and tone sort of guy and prefer the bearish functional strength look.
Because I go to the gym to develop maximum strength. Who the fuck wants to see a ripped 36 year old bald dad? Nobody. So when I go to the gym I train for powerlifting. Besides abs on skinny guys are like tits on fat girls, they don't count. So I'll stick with my pursuit of the 1000 lb club and dgaf if I get fat doing it.
6Half assing it.
6ive tried EVERYTHING and have worked HARD in and out of the gym, and cant change my phisycal appearace.So fuck it, im not gonna keep wasting my time & money
implying you need to go to the gym and be around a bunch of smelly homos to get in shapehome gym master race reporting in
9Your legs are the colums that hold up your body. You want to look like a greek god or like a limp greek god's upper body held up by chopsticks?
6Jeff Seid as thread picNaturalJeff Seid is not natural. Just because he's a physique competitor, doesnt mean shit. He's taking Clen, Cytomel, and possibly Winstrol small amounts if his hair doesn't fall out.
6Here in my garage just bought this new Lamborghini here, it's fun to drive up here in the Hollywood hills. But you know what I like a lot more than materialistic things?Knowledge. In fact, I'm alot more proud of these 7 new bookshelves that I had to get installed to hold 2000 new books that I bought. Its like the billionaire Warren Buffett says "the more you learn, the more you earn".Now maybe you've seen my Tedx talk where I talk about how I read a book a day, you know I read a book day not to show off, again it's about the knowledge.In fact the real reason I keep this Lamborghini here is that it's a reminder, a reminder that dreams are still possible because it wasn't that long ago that I was in a little town in a little town across the country sleeping on a couch in a mobile home with only $47 in my bank account. I didn't have a college degree, I had no opportunities. But you know what? something happened that changed my life, I bumped into a mentor and another mentor and a few more mentors. I found 5 mentors and they showed me what they did to become multi-millionaires.Again, its not just about money, its about the good life, health, wealth, love and happiness. And so i record a little video it's actually on my website, you can click here on this video and it will take you to my website where i share 3 things that they taught me. 3 things that you can implement today no matter where you are. Now this isn't a get rich quick scheme. You know, if they say things sound too good to be true, they are too good to be true. I'm not promising you that tomorrow you're going to be able to go out and buy a Lamborghini, but what I am telling you is that it can happen faster than you think if you know the proven steps.
6because I'm lazy. and playing games and watching movies always gets the better of me when I'm thinking about doing push ups
I am dead
319 years old at pro level, Mr. Olympia competitor. tell me he's natty.
5Nobody cares, you look like a loser.
0Here in my thread, just bought this new Subscription here, it's fun to troll up here in the /b/ threads. But you know what I like a lot more than materialistic things?CP. In fact, I'm alot more proud of these 7 new bookshelves that I had to get installed to hold 2000 new mangas that I bought. Its like the billionaire Gaben says "the more you earn, the more you learn".Now maybe you've seen my WebM vids where I talk about how I read a manga a day, you know I read a manga day not to show off, it's again it's about the hentai.In fact the real reason I keep this Subscription here is that it's a reminder, a reminder that dreams are still possible because it wasn't that long ago that I was on DA across the country drawing up on a wacom in a mobile home with only 47 followers on my page. I didn't have a college degree, I had no opportunities. But you know what? Something happened that changed my life, I bumped into a mental and another mental and a few more mentals. I found 5 mentals and they showed me what they did to become completely fucking euphoric.Again, its not just about Mountain Dew, its about the good life, fur cons, doritos, loli and happiness. And so i record a little video. It's actually on my squarespace. You can click here on this video and it will take you to my tumblr where i share 3 things that they taught me. 3 things that you can masturbate to today no matter where you are. Now this isn't a get kawaii quick scheme. You know, if they say things sound too good to be true, they are too good to be true. I'm not promising you that tomorrow you're going to be able to go out and buy a Subscription, but what I'm telling you is that it can happen faster than you think if you know the proven steps.
6Am I the only one on /b/ that competes? natural bodybuilding, junior provincial level.
6I'm fat and too fucking lazy
9Kek
6OP: I dont because I would look as gay as the guy in your picture
youre just destroying your body putting strain on your tendons and joints, sure you muscles get stronger but they will get weaker once you get older and cant work out making all your hard work futile
We can't all be Neanderthals. Some of us have to advance our species while the rest of you pump up with steroids.
I would rather be intelligent and fast. I don't need big muscles because they will slow me down, and I would rather spend my time making money and getting rich than checking out other guys in the gym.
sss awsfe ddse
6C'mon Jeff....Plz go.
I dont workout for looks.....I lift to be a "sidewalk crackin mean motherfucker" I like to know I can whoop someones ass whenever and wherever I go. feelsgoodman!
6Put in 90 min today as I do most days. Combination of strength training, cardio and yoga.
3this
8when will they learn?
6may I ask you a question in return? Why don't you got to university, study hard and reach your maximum evolutionary potential to attain a perfect trained knowledge of the world you live in and, i don't know, develop something REALLY useful to mankind? If I want to see some muscle I go to the zoo and watch apes beating the shit out of each other. The evolutionaly advantage of man is brain, not muscle.
6just got home from the gym from a 6:30am workout faggot.
2I would rather spend my time making moneYou need to have a job first
ITT: betas with bullshit excuses
6Bodybuilder here. This, but that's why you have to lift heavy and build tendon and joint strength and not start out by using 8-12 reps when you start working out. I've had a rotator cuff injury from benching high reps without going for heavy sets of 5x5 or 3x5. I was out of the gym for a week and a half because I couldnt move my shoulder. Recovery is key to proper growth, strength and healing. People just dont understand. Also cycling through training is important, you cant always go heavy and beast mode.
2
6That's only if you overtrain or use PEDs. Strength training is important because you lose muscle as you age. Do a stretching exercise like yoga for your joints and tendons.
9If all I have right now is a weighted vest just moved....if I do a prison style workout of pullups and pushups until I find a gym is that okay?
Because I got out of the army and realized being a lazy couch potatoe and still getting girls at the bar with war stories is way more fun.
9you cant always go heavy and beast mode.Well at least you can't
9I always stretch and use foam rolling0Do whatever you can to the best of your ability. I was in the same spot when I started in my basement. Look up some home full body workouts. your weighted vest seems pretty handy.
9you have to lift heavy and build tendon and joint strength and not start out by using 8-12 reps when you start working out.I don't get it.
9I can, but you have to realize, your nervous system needs a break, prevent inury and over training. 1 week of going light deload every 4 weeks
1If you are weak and have weak tendons and joints while gaining high muscle mass, your tendons and joints will be sore.
6maximum evolutionary potentialTraining to be a weak ass, low fat bodybuilder who looks strong vs someone who actually is strong.
0Then how do you get strong tendons and joints?
1Lifting heavier!!
5yeah, because physical strength is so important in our everyday life of brawling hand-to-hand with other men, right?
Wow what a huge faggot.I don't need to work out. I'm ruthless and reckless and I may be half of that nigga's size but I'll rip anyone's throat out with my hands and teeth and muscles are useless. Evil doesn't need muscles. They may be useful if your job involves carrying boxes or stuff like that. --The 1%
I feel physically fit enough to do everything I need to do in a daily ritual, and I feel I could probably fight for my life if I had to in terms of strength. Strongest out of all my close friends anyway, due to natural strength. Besides that, I've got more Important shot to do, like finish my degree and finish the Mass effect series I started the other week. I'm a busy man.
6i am going later, now i have to write some applications for my masters and then work on my bachelor thesis, you fat fuck
Because then I wouldn't have time to do things like "read", which would lead me to have no understanding of concepts such as evolution. Evolutionary potential? Lol. Lemarc rolled over in his grave.
2Loss of muscle mass is associated with aging and a lower metabolism. Maintaining your muscle mass keeps you feeling young and energetic and fights obesity and related problems.
6i know is bad troll but...what good does a body like this do you when a guy like GSP, half the size, half the definition, twice the stomach, could whoop this dude into another dimension.don't get physique twisted with actual strength/ability to defend yourself. dudes like this guy prob think they can beat anybody in a fight. pure aesthetics. doesn't do anybody any good.
3Better use the time you have well since not exercising means you'll probably have less of it.
I was totally a straightfag, but yesterday I fapped to a trap for the first time. Now, I have done it thrice.How the fuck do I get cured? I'm worried, /b/ros.
I am failing this year of highschool. What should i do now with my life? I feel weird and yesterday i was thinking about suicide. I dont want people to reject me due to the fact i am a failiure. Help me b :
Reported because you're a minor. Fucking summer fags
7falling high schoolhow about you just kill yourself because you won't achieve shit in your life anyways?
kek
7No sweats, I'm 2 years behind now, just keep going if you really want to study something you love.
7Well OP you have a option, you could drop out and not kill ur self or move to Alaska. I am also guessing this how you feel right now.
I have ADHD Cant focus in class. I should kill myself right now and make the world a better place.
1adhdi bet you're just stupid and find any reason just not to blame yourself
1well you got one thing right hurray !
1Fuck you. Students with far worse disabilities manage to get their shit done. If you really had ADHD you would have support services from an IEP. If you have an official diagnosis but never sought an IEP, so so now with your parents.If you're just an insufferable twat who refuses to focus, get a watch and set it to vibrate every 5 minutes. When it does, evaluate whether you're doing what you're supposed to be doing. If yes, keep going; if no, redirect. That's a common practice for treating ADHD in a school environment.
Hi /b/rothers! I have never asked for anything on b ever. But I come to you and ask if you could gift me Minecraft so I can play with friends. I have no money and finnished school for a week ago, so I will not get any money eather: my parents think I'm addicted to games cuz I beg them to buy it. So they will not buy anytging game related. I don't have any xbox, playstation, gamecube, wee and never had. I only got a macbook air that I buyed from school that's why I'm brokePlease gift me minecraft I do anything! i guess I will even make a snapchat so I can give naked pics if u faggots want that, I have a dick.. But i'm not fat, can be gurly if u want and shave. Weight 51 kg NO FACE!!It's all I can give...
Stop trying. Get a job.
exactly what 620521456 said
6Plox help.. Name is Scrutten on steam
Post dick and i will give you minecraft
6Hard to get a job: seartshing and if I get I can only work after the summer:/
5summer is here
7Here you go
8I could shave if u want
8Post butt hole pls
8Hahhahhajaha
4WHAT!!! Ok i'm not a beauty but I try here!!!
7I demand a butthole else no minecraft
7Here
2I cant see a hole you kunt
2I could trim my but..
2There's no hole there
5Nooo xbox OR gamecube? Shit mang that sounds horrible
8IT's embarising!!! And also I don't have a ro for my self... And batroom only have a curtain: Need to wait until parents not home:
This thread smells a lot like...summer...how odd.
8Too bad, kiddo.
8Well if you want minecraft you better give me a hole before i get bored of this
4Never had... Father said it destroys my brain.. But I have played it with friends: good I w8 till I can move from home and buy things that my farther can't stop me!!
i wish this was real
Holy shit here you go minceraft acoun-t replace + with /
7OK I will send!! Just w8!! Need to check that no one will burst in on me!!!
7What is that?
2See... i aint got any door so I can't shut it:
75 124.180.53.212Lol what a faggot
Your room is a mess. Your hulking, morbidly obese frame cranes over a crusty keyboard. You are surrounded by the trinkets of a meaningless life. Old KFC boxes, soiled underwear, used tissues. A yellowing, stained vest clings to your humid, sticky body. You last shaved a week ago. You browse 4chan, and as you scroll down the catalogue for the 600th time today, is the day you beg for minecraft. 'yess', you wheeze, as you grab a handful of bombay mix and stuff it into your crusty mouth. You quickly go to 'Desktop', and in-between the CP and bestiality videos, you find you have no minecraft. A pathetic, weak erection throbs in your crusty boxers. You sway forwards and back as you maniacally dump your stash on the board, wheezing harder: 'This'll show them' and laughing to yourself at the new level of trolling you've discovered. You feel a wet slime on your leg as you ejaculate into Saturday's underwear, which you're still wearing. You lean back on your 'gaming chair', panting and sweating, as a thin ray of sun peeks through the closed curtains and dust, onto your sweating, pathetic, crumb-covered face.
1Listen i make it very clear i wont give you minecraft unless I see your butt hole. I do not care about you being caught just do it.
2tfw someone trying to get op's ip but they get yours instead
1Does this count?
8I CANT SEE A HOLE.
9That is an australian ipI don't live in australia
Wtf? Can please someone buy him minecraft? Its horrible..
3HERE YOU GO!
7thank you one last thing gimme pic of your nipples
7I FUCKING SOLD MU VERGINITY FOR MINECRAFT!!!
1Happy?
2No
2yesBut you should not trust people on /b/I was never gonna buy you minecraftIf you where a girl you would be a whorei hope you feel good about yourself
1All done? Have I deserved a minecraft?
Finger your asshole
2Will not... I think u are using me
2sharpie in the pooper
2Could give u my snapchat and I could be your whore for 1 night... Only if I know u are going to buy me minecraft:
12These are not me 9This is me
Newfag here. I've been lurking in this shitty site for a few months now and I was wondering, how was 4chan before? Like, I know a lot of guys say it troll and bait and shit but was it 4chan any different than now like 2 years ago?
0Newfag Lmao
It's always been shit.
  ▲▲ ▲
It has literally never been considerably different. there was the IDs debaucle, but before that tripfags were the cool kids
0Dude 4chan was made by the fappeningimplying 4chan isn't a new site
3Quiet u
Shit posting was considerably less. No force meme bananas. Spiderman were posted to wincest threads, not ever single thread made. There was actually good content. I hate you. Summer fag ruin /b/ along with the cancerous autistic basement dwellers
only difference is that there were less dicks
Go in archive
, 
Guys I really need your help on this. Haven't seen gf in about 2 weeks because I've been really busy and she knew that. She went to a party last night and I woke up to a message telling me she wants to break up, out of no where. We've dated for a year and 6 months and I've always been the alpha in the relationship she used to lick my ass 24/7 what made her stop ?
I bet it was that time she saw you sucking dick.
0ok
She cheated. Knows you have small pecker now. Congratulations OP.
option 1 She cheated on youoption 2 One of her friends who fancies you talked her into splitting up with you and she agreed because girls dont have minds of their own
9OP GOT CUCKED CUCKED CUCKED
, 
, 
ya'll niggas will argue about everything.
░░░░▓▓▀▀██████▓▄▒▒░░卐░ ░░░▀░░░░░░▀▀▀████▄▒░░░░ ░░▌░░░░░░░░░░░▀███▓▒░卐░ ░▌░░░░░▄▄▄░░░░░░▐█▓▒░░░ ░▄▓▀█▌░▀██▀▒▄░░░▐▓▓▓▒卐░ ░█▌░░░░░▀▒░░░▀░░░▐▓▒▒░░ ░▌▀▒▄▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░▄▒░░ ░▒▄█████▌▒▒░░░░░░░▒▌▒卐░ ░░▓█████▄▒░▒▒▒░░░░░▐░░░ ░░▒▀▓▒░░░░░░░▒▒░▒▒▒▄░卐░ ░░▓▒▒▒░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▒░▓░░░░ ░░████▄▄▄▄▓▓▓▒▒░░▐░░卐░░░░▀██████▓▒▒▒▒▒░▐░
7fail
Kraken is love, Kraken is life.
3Kraken is great
0faggot./thread
0damn, that's edgy.
, 
, 
Is here anyone from Prague?
yes.
0can i contact you somehow?im going on schooltrip to prague soon so i have some questions
4yes. but i do not know how.
4pm you on reddit maybe?
7haha English isnt my native language soooo...
5well, mine neither. what does it have to do with having a reddit account?
5where are you?
5can i get your email or facebook?
2publicly on 4chan? am not stupid. gimme yours if you not value privacy tho.
, 
, 
Hey /b/ let's play a game. Send me your gf's kik to see if they are loyal I will post results. I will not do any that are posted on this thread. Send there names to my kik zoneout96.
when will these stupid mongrels learn not to make headlines by doing this stupid shit? i honestly believe police departments require applicants to have some sort of downs syndrome in their medical history
, 
, 
, 
Gametime /b/We are all in prison. 0- below prison bitch. At least a bitch gets protection. This dude is getting raped for nothing. 1-2- prison hoes. 3- members of the United blood Nationblack4- members of the Aryan Brotherhood 5- members of La Eme Mesicans6- just read and do not get bothered 7-just work out and do not get bothered8-Guard9-mule with protection from gang of choice. Even Trips is the warden Odd trips starts a rootQuads is the boss don and has the warden in his pocket. Odd Dubs escape.Even dubs are stuck in solitary and develop mental illness Dubs
8 get.
Sup my gangsta ass homies, another fine day in prison...I miss my kids... I shouldn't have commited those crimes.Fuck.
0To the pokey you go!
roll
0Is this even or odd? Haha
roll for 0
Blood gang pls
5warden get
5od dubs we go
Rolling
even trips get
5starting a root
rolo
7zero dubs are even dubs, stuck in solitary with mental illness.
8Solitary lol
000 get!
5Get rekt
anything but 3 get
yeh
blooooood
3fuck this job, let me escape
5Odd dubs get
9ffs, I got my escape rope ready
Roll
2balls
1no
roll
5wat
rekt
im your warden
life sucks
Rollin'
rolling
5rollnado
dubs get
Die
what am i in for
5just wan to read ;_;
5lets escape
7guess im out
5guard get
plz i wanne be a nigger or get raped for nothing!
Fuck
0NIGGER AND PRISON BITCH, life rules
rollin rollin rollin
5ALLAH HU AKBAH JIHAD
Might as well
rollan
4 get
Don't mess with me fags
rolling in the deep
9yiss not getting hard dickingsthanks prison gang of choice
Roll
Roll
5Rolling for 7
Rol
7 pls
Rollerino
Rollin' Rollin' Rollin', Keep them /b/tards Rollin'.
Rell
5troll
8 get
Rolling
rool
Yee
5OK, so I'm a spic. Now what?
keep rollin
If odd dubs I'll slice my dick open with razor and post pics
5Dubs get
Roll
lets beat some pussies
Warden roll you cunts
Rolling
Roll
Hey muh roll
3Ah I fuck I'm a nigger, I aint never gon be no warden now
roll
aryan
5Lets do this...
Let's see what I get
8okay i escaping good luck faggots!
4Shit, i'm a fuckin' crazy now.
, 
Any tips on how to give a proper blowjob?
Be a faggot.
5Pretend like you're not enjoying it.
7Should I pretend like I'm choking? Do guys find that hot?
Do it like this
0Yes, also start slow, play with the tip first, don't just go straight for the deep throat, be careful with your teeth as well.
7That's mainly the big problem, as much as I try to open my mouth to the fullest I still manage to knick him with my teeth sometimes. Makes me feel super bad that I can't properly do it
6Thanks I'm gonna save that video
0teeth are not always liked, test waters. most importantly: pay attrntion, dont be to repetitious. the glans itself is like the clit, probably too sensitive for continued direct stimulation, the shaft is like the labia majora, okay but meh compaired to the rest. concentrate on playing with the frenular delta, the inner foreskin and the frenar band.the frenular delta is like the male gspot, the source of 90% of all penis orgasms. do soft licks, hard licks, narrow tongue tip and broad flat tongue type licks. keep it varied, and watch for good reactions to hone in on what he likes. be aware that hard sucks feel, like ultra soft in the moth slides feel good in shortish intervals. over and over and it either starts to hurt of feels like nothing.
6boring as fuck.
0blow jobs a blow job, unless you bite his dick off, he will enjoy it.also if you try to kiss him in the mouth after the blow job youre a fucking retard and should kill yourself, please never do it.
8Well he's got to learn some how.
2So I should pay attention to those spots and check for his reaction? That's sounds simple enough, got any tips on how to avoid the teeth problem? It doesn't always happen but I don't know why it does either. I basically almost dislocate my jaw and still manage to hurt him sometimes
4I do that all the time, he doesn't mind. Does the same when he eats me out anyways so he sees it as a payback
4I ate my girlfriend out and still kissed her, fuck yousex has to be dirtyinb4 cuckold
4depends on a lot of factors. my gf is terrible at blowjobs because she feels incompetant and self concious, it leads to a repetition of soft mouth in and out for 10 min until I just ask her kindly to stop.
4I don't stop until he cums so, I don't know
4Fucking lost, politely asking a chick to stop sucking your cock
2so your boyfriend likes cock.ask him to have a 3some with another guy and you, he will most likely say yes and after that session he will come out of the closet and accept hes a faggot.
1Just curl your lip over the top of your teeth.
You don't have to deepthroat if you can't. In fact, spend a bit of time on the tip. However, don't only focus on the head as that may cause pain and sensitivity, especially after he cums at least in my experience. Have fun and vary your techniques. Lick up and down the shaft. It really is up to your and your partner's personal preference. Make eye contact, spit on his penis, suck on his balls, etc. Oh, and remember to create good suction with your mouth. Don't bite his penis.
Use your mouth
8when sucking, if your on your knees faving him your lips will be sliding over his inner foreskin and frennar band, and your tongue will be right on his frenular delta, work those as you suck instead of solely concentrating on sucking and working the glans. the glans is like an amplifier, not the main sensitive source of orgasm. its hard to explain, the glans doesnt have soft touch nerve endings where the frenular delta, frenar band and inner foreskin are rich with them. so while it will feel good on the glans, it will feel complex and fantastic on the inner foreskin stuff. you can avoid some teeth by pursing your lips inward a bit as a buffer between him and your teeth, if you angle your head back a little you can avoid the bottom teeth by having your tongue over them and the tilt will lessen the scraping from your top teeth. if hes enormous and/or you have a small moth or sharp crooked teeth it mag be a little unavoidable.watching for reaction is important always, try new things a few times over different sessions before throwing them out, as it might work in one sequence or at a different time. if he loves one or two things especially concentrate on those, bit still keep some variety unless hes seripusly just a grpund and pound kind of guy who doesnt give a shit about anything but 'just go in and out ypu whore cunt!'. hopefully he isnt like that.
8I'll try that right away! Thank you so much
5He hates men and faggots, I don't but he's practically a homophobic dick sometimes
2then your doing pretty alright. now its just adding variety and honing technique.
0That looks and feels retarded as fuck m8...
5You are so insecure that you might as well gobble on some cock already, faggot.
2yeah if you google homophobe you will find that 99% of homophobes are actually closeted insecure faggots who hate the gay part of themselves so much they take it on all fags.
2He's not like that, but I'll try the angle thing, never really thought about that just attempted to open my mouth as far as I could go trying to avoid direct contact with teeth, but now I'll try the lip, angle, tongue thing you just mentioned
Look, depending on the dick shape you may have to go in from a difrent angle, try to go at it with your ass towards him, that helps for deep throat and the teeth problem, good luck!
9So youd rather have the shit scraped out of your cock because his/her mouth is too small? Hey to each their own I guess.
, 
, 
, 
, 
What's your opinion on this?
it's still okay to rape her right?
She just go to america for like a week and then this happen
4I love these threads.Some women get hotter, others, not so much.More?
I'd still fuck it. She looks like she's nasty.
4a shame, but fascinating to watch
4Fucking lovely.Way better as a bbw.
4where are pics 4, 5 and 6? I'd love to see some progress.
4Middle one is cutest
4Even though she's 100lb heavier, her looks have improved and her face looks better for being fatter...Sexy underwear to cover the ripples and she's pretty hot
i love fatties more than anything
This is why women cant stop getting fat, all of you desperate for pussy that the only one you can get are from insecure fat bitch who cant stand for 10 min. Kill yourself you are not contributing to the society by helping those landwales.
Im defiantly ok with this
4Metabolism goes like THAT!!!
44 Quadssquare root16errorerrorerror
5fattiesBarely chubby
Sad
4When a man touches his daughter at night and doesn't say anything about her weight, you get a stress eater, and the end result is this.When a man touches his daughter at night and tells her she needs to stop eating like a piggy, you get an anorexic or bulimic girl who looks fabulous in a bikini and sucks cock like a champion.Fathers everywhere, please don't do a half-assed job. Finish what you start.
What is your music guilty pleasure /b/?Mine is any song by Rae Sremmurd.
5I don't have any guilty pleasures, I like what I like.
5kill yourself
I like Rae sremmurd "Unlock The Swag" and "My X"
, 
What do you think about learn Russian? Is It difficult? I started the Cyrillic alphabet studies. Learn that language is usefull?
7MODS!
7Yep, it's pretty challenging. Not as bad as Gaelic, though.
I am a 32 year old unkissed virgin with no friends. Ask me anything about my eventful life.
I'm 34. ask me instead!
2fuck, i'm reaching the point of no return.What should i do?
2628 here.......i thought I was a powerful wizard, but I still have so much to learn, masters
2You ever thought of going to Thailand / Cambodia / Vietnam and getting laid for like 20 - 30 bucks? The girls are really nice and will approach you and give you a real girlfriend experience. It's worth a try for a day if you chose to holiday there
I lost mine at 15 to my friends 20 year old fat sister, the very first day I ever met her. Went over to his house for his bday and spent the night. Woke up to her standing over me on the couch where I was sleeping.Didn't have sex again until I was 21.
2have you ever been clubbing? If yes how did it go for you? Have you ever had a girlfriend? What is your occupation?
2what do you do to pass the time?
1I'd day the point of no return is 25. But killing yourself is always a good idea.
2south east asia for asian whore or eastern europe for white whore. pick your whore
6I've been to Thailand once. However, was primarily focused on the cultural stuff.6I've been clubbing quite often - even though I hated it. Basically, two things happened: either I stood in the corner and sneaked out after an hour or I got horribly drunk.I'm a biochemist.4Sleeping
2What truly stopped you from losing your virginity, what is the cold hard truth?
2Do you have any hobbies?
Have you had any close female friends before? every had a girlfriend or anyone close?
5I'm either an arrogant, stuck up bastard or so full with self-hate that I can barely function.8No.2I've had mostly female friends. On the one hand, 70% of classmates were female. On the other hand, I can't really connect with males. I would however say that I never had close friends.
9No.Just curious, is there anything in your life that you enjoy?
5Getting drunk. Reading. Sleeping. Listening to music. Cycling. Swimming. Skiing. Canoeing. Climbing. But everything in moderation.
9if you have no hobbies and don't fuck around with women, you should be rich as fuck
9Can we get a pic of you or nah
2Which part of your body or face bothers you the most?
2What does pussy feel like in your imagination?
2015still obsessing over sex
3Haha. I am a biochemist/molecular biologist. I make 35k a year. 3Anonymized
5My mind.7Bags of sand.
What's stopped you from killing yourself all these years?
1What is wrong with your mind?
4see9
5You look pretty handsome I guess
0have you ever thought about actinglessons, to act over your insecureness?
8I used to think so too but I probably am mistaken.7I'm a horrible actor.
3Why? What is wrong with you? you seem like a lad.
3that´s why you should take lessons, faggot.You only have two options...1. you get over yourself2. you learn to act like someone else.
3If I was really handsome, I would have gotten more positive responses from women.
8I was in drama club in school. Believe me when I say I am a horrible actor.
9It's not all about appearance.. trust me... I would know....
8I know. Appearance might be important for the first expression, then other stuff - conversation, character - takes over. When I am talking about positive responses from girls, I'm talking about e.g. smiles before conversation is even initiated.
3Your attitude is the problem, dude. You say you can´t, but instead of doing something else to improve your skills, you complain on /b/
3Dude. There is a lot of stuff I can do. But there is stuff I can't. That's something which is normal for every person. Acting is among those things. Believe me, I tried.
4But even if your skill is weak, you can still improve.
4I can. But I don't think that I can improve enough that anyone will buy the act.
2can you speak in binary?
7I wish.
Are you afraid of sex? Do you interact with women? What has been the problem, why don't you just hire a prostitute and get it over with?
what do you like in girls?
Can I offer you guys some hope? I'm 33 and lost mine earlier this year.My method:1. Get drunk with a lesbian friend.2. Tell her.3. She'll be shocked.4. Then she'll go: lemme help ya!5. She's my wing-woman now.6. She's fucking Wedge Antilles.7. In a matter of hours, I've added a fat single mother to my facebook friends. Not a looker but I can't afford to be picky8. Meet this woman.9. She takes charge. By the end of the night I've done lots of things.10. Lying in bed she comments that my skill in licking her out was excellent.11. "It wasn't that hard, only had to listen to your breath, then do more of what made you breathe weirdly.12. hfw she realised she came three times from a guy she deflowered.
3Are you afraid of sex?No. I mean, how difficult could it be?Do you interact with women?I interact with women the same way I interact with men. I don't interact well with men.What has been the problem, why don't you just hire a prostitute and get it over with?I'm sometimes thinking about finding the most ugly, disease ridden hooker in town and loosing my virginity to her as a giant fuck you to myself.7My penis. Duh.
6Yeah first you have to get them to get it in
9I told some of my old female friends when I was around 25. Let's say they were not surprised.
220 and lost mine to my 1st girlfriend this year. Feels good man, i fucking made it.
6Would you say you have become a women hating neckbeard on the inside because of it or not? Would you say that you're in general more full of hate than others because of this?
0Well I mean, either not surprised or tried hard to not look like assholes.
2Would you say that you're in general more full of hate than others because of this?I'm probably a more hateful person than others. Although it's mostly self hate. I don't have women specifically - why should I?
8They pretty obviously tried to change the topic.
1I don't know why, it's just that a lot of virgins seem to be.
0Maybe, it's the other way round.
217 lost my virginity to gf. Who needs magic?
9Say that again when I rain you with fireballs.
6Ah, yeah, but hey man as someone said, who cares? If you just pick shit up you can easily do great things with all this free time, right? Just start working on yourself, and if it really bothers you THAT much, then why not buy a prostitute? They are very cheap in Thailand, I've heard.I'm a virgin However I'm at a age that it is "normal" to be one inb4 newfag,etc but I have even started working on myself, I was a selfloathing fucking asshole faggot, but I cut my hair changed my attitude and I'm losing weight, already gotten a lot of friends and won an award for most charismatic personality in my entire grade.TL;DR just fucking get over yourself
2
7My many offspring will serve as fodder to protect me. Catch me if you can :^
2I love how retarded that time line ist.t. a 22 year old virgin
9Better start reproducing then, asshole. I will go Stannis on your kids.
2Best fucking advice and wisdom ever, is he a damn god!?"Japanese culture is not amazing. Japanese culture is oppressive and stifling and that's why so many nips kill themselves. Weebs have Peter Pan syndrome.Holy fucking shit someone finally said it. Damn though 2010
9So you'll be reluctant to sacrifice them and hold them prisoner? Or are you a Tv fag?
7OP here. Also loved that point.
Sup guys! Fucked more weemen than years in my life AMA
9too soon bruh
26Everything but the last point were 100% true
1I've read the books years ago. Just remembered that his daughter was still alive as aDwD ended.Also: you fucking nerd!
6nerd insultOn a mongolian cartoon image board
4Nerd insults are always contextual.
2But it's the pot calling the kettle black essentially
0I'm might be a social loser but I'm not really that much into nerd stuff.
4Okay wut? I'm heavy into nerd stuff but I'm still socially accepted. How does that work?
Have you honestly never even kissed a girl before ?
8I don't understand what the problem is just buy a hooker I mean jesus man, 32?
I don' t understand, I'm a virgin by choice 25 and It really doesn't effect me that much, only masturbated 3 or 4 times and it felt good I guess, but because of personal reasons I'm waiting until marriage.
2No I'm not 32 the other guy is. I've lost my v-card
8You might socially accepted by other nerds. Also, nerd culture has moved into the mainstream.I on the other hand never liked fantasy or scifi or comics or video games.
I went to a brothel to lose my virginity a month ago. Was horny enough to spend $90 like an idiot. Came in 40 seconds, had another awkward 30 mins left and just got a no-effort massage lmao.Anyway, next day some chick I was sitting next to was super horny at work and dragged me to the diabled toilets and we fugged.Funny how life works.
6True.
4I've been to Thailand once. However, was primarily focused on the cultural stuff.This was me in Japan, I thought the women were just really nice. Turns out they want to get married. Just find a peasant girl and marry her faggot.
9Reading. Sleeping. Listening to music. Cycling. Swimming. Skiing. Canoeing. ClimbingTHOSE ARE HOBBIES.
8Nah man I'm not even talking about other nerds. I mean like chads ask me to go clubbing and stuff with them. feelsgoodman to be honest. I dunno what /robots/ are so afraid of.
5How the fuck are you a virgin? What the fuck dude, you could bang so much college pussy. Go to a brothel and just say "Hey, I'm a virgin. Teach me"Most hookers are mentally fucked and will just go with it, they want to make it your best time. Just fucking go Cambodia/Vietnam/Taiwan. You'd be a fookin model to them. You're not fat, you're not ugly, you just have no confidence m8.
4People also asked me to go clubbing as explained above. In HS, I was friends with a 10/10 manwhore because we shared a passion for beer after school and heavy drink on the weekends.
dude, get a life!
4cultural stuffi thought sex tourism was part of the culture?
5wtf. you look normal
9It's stuff I do very unregularly. I maybe e.g. go canoeing thrice a year. A hobby is in my opinion something you devote a lot of time into and something where you in consequence have developed considerable skill.
9Face is like only 5% of attraction. 20% is physique Differs women to women, some don't mind a chubster if he's confident+Good personality Personality is like 30%Style/dress is probably 50% This doesn't mean swag fag ultra, just wear what women react positivley to you in. Walk around and maintain eye contact with people, you'll realize that some girls are really into you. Fuck magn.
1i bet you have avoidant personality disorder
52 here, no regret
7Fuck replace style with 30% and personality 50%As in, have a fucking personality, don't be a beta yes man.
8Some people dont want their first ever time to be with a dirty street hooker though...you know what i mean?
2Oh well, I'm going to keep it up as long as I can. Hanging out with them is actually fun.
720% is physique Differs women to women, some don't mind a chubster if he's confident+Good personalityPhysique is my problem. I have gigantic problem gaining weight and my pecs are non-existent. Pic related.
7read: spend money on clothes
7please. in this day and age, physique means not be a fat fuck.
7just wear what women react positivley to you inNever happened. you'll realize that some girls are really into you.dito0As in, have a fucking personality, don't be a beta yes man.I'm a beta no man. As I said, personality is arrogant, elitist, stuck up asshole.
2How much is money approx? At the moment, I spend between 200 and 250€ per month on clothes.
I'd say the point of no return is not 20, it's rather when you start to work and haven't developped the necessary to get laid human interaction skills during your studies. Which can be around 23-24 if you are going for long studies.Did not got laid until I was out of prep school, got mad pussies after. As long as you are not physically disgusting or shorter than them, girls don't care that much about physcial appearance.I'm rather short 5'8 but i'm fun to be around, don't give a shit about other people's opinion hence very confident, and i don't flatter girls sayi "you're not bad" instead of "you're good". This way you are complimenting them but not lowering your self worth. I barely go back home alone after a night out hunting, I hate clubbing only thing you can do is touch and kiss, or if you bring a girl home she is drunk = bad sex. Stop thinking of women as "women" and more as "bro with boobs and a vagina" and you'll see you'll get easy pussay. Pic related, OC.
6Which can be around 23-24 if you are going for long studies.Or 30 in my case.Stop thinking of women as "women" and more as "bro with boobs and a vagina" I do. The thing is that I have problems interacting with bros as well. In the end, it was always easier for me to interact with women than with men.
2Why not an hero?
6if you dont go clubbing, where else do you get your women?
4It's not about the value, it's about your fashion taste. Don't wear tee-shirt in public. Tee shirt are a specific piece of clothing made for sport or when you know you will gert dirty. The same way you don't weart a swimsuit everyday, you don't ever wear a tee-shirt everyday.Buy polo shirt and shirt instead.Jeans are fine, but baggy jeans = ghetto = kill yourself with a spoon, you spent money to look unnatractive. Same with all "brand" clothes nike, addidas..... They are ghetto as hell. No white socks. Ever. No white shoes/sport shoes if you are not actually doing sport. Ever. You can find nice city shoes for around a hundred buck, and you won't look like your mom is still dressing you. For the same reason, no hoodie. Hoodies are for loser or for home. Not for the outside world. Hoodies and tee-shirt is the worst combo.Dressing nice is about looking rich. Rich wear a suit to work, but you are not at work when meeting people, so if you are wearing a suit, it will instead mean "Hi, i'm the butler". Pic related, a picture I just quick-grabbed on my phone of me and my gramp. No expensive piece of clothing, relaxed enough to go out but classy enough to carry the message.
6Bars, friends of friends, hell even stranger in the street. If an event is hapenning, if you are queuing next to a hot girl etc... just say somethign witty about her/the situation, keep talking, grab her number, send her a message the same evening and see where it goes.
6It's not about the value, it's about your fashion taste.I don't have any fashion taste so I usually buy expensive most of my stuff is Hugo Boss lately and just hope that it's tasteful. I usually simply wear a jeans or suit pants and a buttoned shirt. In winter, I wear a sweater over it. Somethings, I dress slightly hipster; see pic in 5I don't even own a suit.
3What I forgot to add. I think your sleeves are too long in 6
6Funny because this guy thinks he's fashionable
7You got raped, son
3Actually hugo boss is a bit expensive but the overall taste is fine. If you have any girl friend or a boy friend who you think dress sharp, ask him for an afternoon out shopping. Most girl will love it, and if your bro look sharp he will most likely enjoy shopping too and jump on the occasion to buy a few things for himself. When buying clothes, a few things to remember : Avoid colors too flashy. They are difficult to accomodate to other pieces of clothings.Salmon and other "white red" is not gay, and is in fact manly.bright pink is gayer than a rainbow though. If you are going for colors, the easiest choice is blue. A man "idgaf what i'm wearing today i'll just grab the first item in laundry"'s wardrobe colors shall be mostly blue and grey from black to white for the core. You can throw in marooun for a leather jacket or beige for your pants. Avoid blue pants jeans with blue shirt. But your blue shirts will go fucking well with your beige pant. Avoid cheked shirt or checked anything. Visual pollution, you are not a starbuck macfag hipster. I.e : educated dumb peopleBlack shoes. Always. Everything else require more attention to the colors you are wearing. Black is passe-partout. Buy a nice belt, and always wear it. When i say nice, i mean elegant, suit level belt. It will go with anything, even your jean. Silver/black color for the buckle, black/grey/brown for the rope. Ofc no black on black. What country/city are you living in ? I can direct you to local shops.
5Not so much, it's because of my shoulder position. But yeah, it's difficult to find ready to wear piece of clothing that are the right size everywhere.
What's your favourite colour?
2What country/city are you living in ? I can direct you to local shops.UK.
5Post yourself faggot then. inb4 angsty hipster or gay designer I'm not fashionable in that I'm not a fashion sheep. I'm a lazy guy who thinks clothing is important because it's what people see of you, and hence carry a strong message about yourself. So I rationalized my choices. I will not go after the latest trend which I often find ugly, such as these elbow patches... but instead will dress in a way that will show I'm from an educated and richer than average background while still allowing me to grab pieces at random in my wardrobe without caring much about pairing.
9No Wonder you're 32 and never had sex all you do is go on 4chan and sleep all day fucking faggot
9black. like my soul
7London ?
3I sleep all night.4Cambridge.
6Ouch, much less choices...Err, I see a Zara there. Be careful to avoid too flashy things, but their "boring" clothes plain colors polo shirts, jeans, shirts... are allright
2you're a wizard Harry
Fucking chicks is 90% confidence/attitude, 5% bac, 5% luck.
1That's the problem. I don't have the confidence. My past has taught me.
5I am a biochemist/molecular biologist. I make 35k a year.Dude, wtf?
8Didn't really get my dream job. Salary is pretty average for a mid tier job.
2Why don't you just go to a prostitute?
65Try hard faggot. Do you wear a suit jacket to bed. I look better in joggers and a tshirt than you do there. 7not about clothes just make sure they fit well and you dont look rediculous if you not comfortable wearing sumat dont itll show. When speaking to people push out that voice which tells u ur a not good with them. Use a prostitute just get it outta the way its no biggy. Every1 and i mean every1 gets rejected sometimes so dont take it personally also eat more to gain weight it sounds retarded but its never enough people dont understand do all the weights in the world but if ur not fueling muscles properly they wont grow, also smile and be nice to people what u see urself as shy other people might mistake it as arragance or you being mardy. TL;DR kill irself
7my...sisterherhis househis bdayherNigga wuht?
7Man are you retarded?his = his friendher = his friends sister
2your too stuborn imo. You need to do something to break yourself down. Have you ever considered joining the military for a year? maybe doing a strength camp for a week or two? it would force you to go outside your comforte zone. It sounds like it would help alot
6have you considered seeing a psychologist? Don't come at me with that self prognosis bullshit either
2Where do you live? I'll hang out with you if you're cool.
2OP i think you should read number 5
4 months until I reach the point of no return. What should I do to celebrate?
6Comfort zones are brilliant things. And they are non-overlapping. Strength camp sounds nice to fuel my self-hatred.1I've been on and off antidepressants since I am 15.9I'm not.
5I never disguised my narcissism as depth. And yes, I am an extremely narcissistic person.
, 
Fact: women hate short "men"
Fuck it I'm a masochist.I'm 19 years old and 5'3 also I've never kissed a girl.DO your worst
0not using the metric systemfuck off
619, 6'1", same boat
6Using imperial system so the mericans can understand.
06´0" femalehad no problems whatsover. Guys, don´t be so insecure about your height, laugh people in the face when they tell you you´re too tall or too short
6This '' ' "'"' " ' my ass
1mericans take this bait better than other countries. It needs to be imperial system
8Then get told you have a napoleon complex because you come off as a bit abrasive
2according to google, I'm 1.8542 metersHow the fuck is that any better what
tfw 6'0"ahhhh
Sweet im a king of manlets!
9its common to only use 2 decimal places. therefore you are 1.85m tall.that about 20cm taller than I am
0 MFW a comfortable 6'0 and am unattractive due to cystic acne at 19I am hoping it goes away with age because I've tried most products on the shelves.
192 cm here, feels decent man
5'9 king of manlets reporting in.Girls are usually either smaller than me or at the same height so i didn't have many problems
0caring about what women want
1Go to a doctor, ask them about it. they treat you with the good shit. my brother was basically one giant pimple. then he got tons clearer in like a week. then he stopped taking them and they came back.
05'11" 1.80m hereapparantly i'm masterrace according to OP's picbeen told by many people that i'm "tall"American average is like 5'9"-5'10"tfw women expect a man to be 6' or tallertfw average isn't good enough for womentfw not even butthurt, just disgusted
7Thats exactly how I feel. Except I'm 5'2
8The thing is that it's clearing up in places but not some. Like parts of my cheeks are acne free and other parts aren't, same with chin and upper chestAlso been to a doctor just not a derm,.
7I'm 5"11" too. I know that feel, man.
0go to a dermatologist. Theres only a few things that might be causing it.hormonal imbalanceInfectionyou're a fucking dirty cunt that needs a good scrubbing
6'0 club win
0Lol what the fuck is this shitim 6'3 normal body weight, low bodyfat, good looking face. Literally every girl/woman in my life who im friends with always compliment my height.Its true though, i gotta eat like a horse to maintain normal body weight, sucks.
3holy fuck you must be a true manlet or a preteenim considered short and im 182cm
4I'm not dirty I shower twice daily, three time if I work that day. Not sure if it's an infection or hormonal imbalance, and if it's a hormonal imbalance nothing can stop it except aging right? Definitely going to a dermatologist as soon as i can
0Fact: women hate short "men" edit*Fact: Women love money
0showers 3 times a daydoesnt know where his skin problems come from
0Make a metric table or gtfo, faggot.
4Fact: Women love money/thread
0These threads always crack me up. I am 5' 9". One of my good friends is 6' 2"I have gotten 3* the pussy he has in life, am more successful, have a bigger dick, the whole 9 yards. Really when you call us 'manlets' what you are saying is "I wish I had a real dick, and a chick to put it in"Top kek guise.
0youre retarded, your skin has some natural oils in it that are good for the skin, but if you shower that often each day its just pure soap and dirt/other shit.idiot
6I kek'd.
619 years old. Can thank my parents. My dad is 5'8 and my mum is like 4'9. My brother is 6' and my sister is 5'5. So i got all the short genes.
6 Short because of short parentsThat's a shock right there. Most short people have giant parents.
, 
, 
/ravenousteves is the target for the new truck rally c:
so, anyone got a good name for that multicore rename? to make it sound official?
5No guys I like him he's some loser that never gets views lets not fuck with him he's actually glad to have us.
1Then find a new target
5bumpniigers
5/sander1105song request go
Deaththekid91 is not invited to any new rally's btw so fuck off fag
He banned me, kek
crap, can someone post that chan hacker shield, went to grab it and my browser went back

Where r the girls flashing nudes on twitch fuck this I want sitckam back fuk
3Hi guys also mod of his room ama
1fuck u lil bitch boy that hurts my feelings
, 
what does this say /b/? I bought it cuz it looked good. what kind of durka haram halal shit does it sat?
, 
what can i do with someones ip?
You could haxor them real good
post it here
4You can kill yourself.
Download LOIC and DOS their internet
Shove it up your ass
write it downmemorize itan hero:-
old one 404d
9bump, raid it
/rosiegocrazyI'm literally_triggered right now
6i feel triggered so hard
OP here i'm topofthelels5/rosiegocrazyeatsdicks
Bump
Anyone in a tinychat??
7chek'd
1we got skype
hello fellow 9gaggers
shit the kid actually thinks its 9fag
4Fuck, jump in a tinychat and drop the skypes, whos the target?
bump
6tinychat / jimmyrussell22will post skype in here
6banned permanently from her chat, any other raid-worthy fuckers on?
9 Shoeshopper
2I'm in the tinychat now, drop names
bump
, 
KING OF THE NORTH!
, 
How do you guys make money on the internet?I remember back in 2010 you guys made money off google adsense via blogger, is that still a thing? Please guys help a poorfag out, I dont wanna get a part time job, I'd rather work at home from my computer, and I really wanna go to university.
3selfbamp
5cheking my own dubs
6bump pls
do porn
0pls guys
9I'm a guyAlso is there still that one way to make money via solving captchas?
I see this as "I'm a fucking piece of shit lacking a work ethic or any value to society".Get a job nigger.
Also i live in austria if that is relevant
3Hm you can fuck right off faggot. I actually do work right now and want to attend university in autumn. Whats wrong with wanting to earn some extra coin on the side on the internet? Think outside the box autismboy
4kek, not anon. But your not fooling anyone, faggot.Do they have governed aid on Australia you could get?
0Austria m8. And yes, I will get those, allthough I'm german so I wont get as much.
What size is the best dick size?
Depends on the girl but I'd say 7-8 inches and 5.5-6 inches thick is perfect.thicknessG-Spot and the tight feeling girls lovelengthDeep penetration is the best for both parties.She will go totally crazy if you hit the right spot and it feels the best for your dick tooEverything over 8 inches is can be too much.inb4 but my girl said 10 inches is bestI've got 7.5 inches non bone pressed myself and from the 50 girls I've fucked 98% guessed it was 10 inches
7virgin detected
7virgins gives life-advices about dicksfaggotsnot every pussy is the same...so for some bitches its big for another bitch small
3I'm looking forward to the typical dismissive remark that this kind of conversation produces.
OP, there's really no way to tell beforehand. Just start with a small dick and go bigger and bigger until your asshole can't take it anymore. Hope this helps!
3telling the painful truth and hurting your feelings is considered being a virgin nowjust accept it.rubbing the end of her pussy is amazing for you because that spongy feeling grips around your glans and it's amazing for her if you take it slow and don't hit her cervix too much
Hi /b/ really bored. Anybody know fun games on pc I can torrent. Preferrably oldish games coz i have a shitty laptop that can only play games on lowest setting.
Dark Souls 2 could be run on a toaster, but playing it offline wouldn't be much fun.Fable tLC the original from years ago is actually really good on PC.One that might require a better PC Is Pokemmo. That game is seriously legit.
9You can't go wrong with mount and blade warband, but it's like having an amazing cake but only half of it when playing offline
download VisualBoyAdvancedownload the following ROMsPokémon SnakewoodPokémon Ash GreyFire EmblemFire Emblem: Sacred StonesGolden Sun Golden Sun: the Lost AgeDays and days and days right there
2turn based RPGsfunthey are alright if you have nothing left to play but they are pretty shit otherwise.
get a Wii emulator, a controller and get Endless Ocean 2its about exploring the ocean and shit, i love itanybody know other games like this?
9You can probably run Fallout 3, Morrowind and maybe Oblivion, I'd try those if you're into those types of games. As far as FPS goes, you can most likely run CoD4, WAW and MW2, which all have cracked multiplayer components if you look hard enough so maybe try that as well.
B u M P
6kill yourself.
9have you tried league of legends? i just got into in last month and i'm hooked
Go to any torrent website. Search for GOG games Good Old Games. There you go.A fav of mine: Evil Genius
9What kind of games you into?Castle Crashers is pretty fun
, 
, 
Here is some kek for you /ba good 30 min to make
if you get trips you also get dubs.
1
, 
Dank Memes in my ass
niggers tongue my anus
, 
, 
Привет, Ask a russian anything.
Ra Ra Rasputin?
How does it feel to be essentially the blacks of europe?
pizda bljeeeeed wodka nahuj?
2seconding this
2who said that?
29deer muricans, gypsies are the blacks of europe.
2Careful there, that chair might break under the weight of your freedom.
3хуй сосать ещё не предлагали?
Are your women trustworhy?
3Привет, Ask a russian anything.No. Go back giving head your sandnigger overlord.Nuh sosach, beedlow.
0At least you didn't say gorbatchev perestroyka.Far more offensive here in russia.
24Not American...
9Depends. Most are. But some will suck dick for money. Usualy the pretty ones. Go for average, you won't miss.
3tell us more about your tv show where tanks of several countries compete against each other.videos would be great.
4then you're just stupid as an american
4Will I need give you a sugar?
4? You think 4chan is much better?
3пошёл на хуй дурак
6
0Well we have a show here. Tanks of different times and nations are at a competition there.
6He's Elitar. Worship you worm!
4So I will be the first one. Will you suck or not?
0if you Guys hate niggers So much, why do you let them in your countries?
3Because their president is Nigger too.
3Most russian people are gay, but they don't wan't to admit it so they act homophobic. True or not?
3Slave labour
Why am I so bipolar
3What do you think about Croatia and Serbia?
6Wow you guys are So progressive you have a black president. I bet you are all for freedom, democracy and equality... What next a woman president, a gay, a pedophile?
2blacks of yurop=sandniggers, and eastern yurop doesn't have them.
8No. Back in soviet times we didn't know what the word homosexual means. In the 90 the west told us great secret but it was too late...
8Sure you right, comrade! I tell you more. Sometimes we have incest with a dog. Now that's the true!
3why are ukrainians such gigantic faggots?
9So why do you nazis complain if you bring them in valuntarely?
9I liked it more when you were called yugoslavia
8We try to convince them to go to Russia instead but they know Russia is even more shit than Africa.
3How do u feel when your country slowly becomes North Korea?
how's the school system in Russia?
3620520413Why do u guys suck at every fckin moba game?Vodka vodka, cyka cyka
6A president who had an experience of incest with a dog! Truly freedom!
hi, we in Latvia hope you all fucking die you russian communist piece of shits
3How does it feel to be somewhat white and yet so poor?
7I don't have nothing against the ukranian people. We and them are one. They are simply in the hands of the west which uses them with false promises.
Why are russians so ugly?
Can you actually speak English or just read and write it?
2That's because they know you got nothing to offer
7I am starting to get feeling you are trying to insulte me. Is that true? Is there something that frustrates you?
9Nine years of education is mandatory. 10-11 forms if you decide to go to university.
4Cause we have so many good looking girls our looks didn't had to get better. pic related, it's me atm in germany
7Happiness is not in material wealth. With the distruction of the ussr we lost some thing far more important. We Lost our home, our faith, our future.Back then people believed in an ideology. Now only greed...
2Thanks. You're so cute. Lemme hug you!
4We are not. Like all nations there are both kinds of people.
Cyka Blyat
2implying that during the Soviet Union there was no greed
6If doesn't. Our superiors love money and spending it in the west too much.
1How old are you? You still play games?
227 and yeah
6I bet you live in east germsny, look at the sockets
6We do. Our old promises and centuary long frindship. We are one people. One family.
what does выздоравлевай пуся mean?
4Shame. Grown man like you should work and marry at this age.
5Get well from sickness.
9You lived there?
0Win
1What promises? You only offer a constructed view of history that belongs to a different age. You are welcome to join the 21st cenury anytime.
3I can. Also french and spanish.
2Are they So different? Did we advanse that far from anciant greece?
9Is it necessary to live somewhere to know that greed is ever-present?
2What made you say that?
2top fucking kek, russian people really believed in that shitty ideology?? no one you occupied after & during WW2 believed in that shit, that's why there was so much revolts.
5It is. At least we saw it as an enemy instead of imbrassing it and concidering it a quality. Evil sits inside each one of us. We must fight it on a daily basis not to turn into animals.
2implying russia practices communism
8What? I was referring to We are one people. One Family.Which is ridiculous. Reminds me of certain ideologies that your country tried to eradicate.
6No, there were revolts only because we eased the grip.and our enemies saw an oportunity to strike. Who do you think created the socialist revolts in the west?
0Did you travel the banks of the river of Jordan?
0We russians, ukranians and belarussians realy are one people. We speak the same language. Have the same culture. All grew up with same films and cartoons in our childhood.
4Western one...
7Implying that is somehow related to anything lawd, that summer child
7Communism was the objective. Socialism was the way. Even we had money and governament.
4I never understand why you people on this website refer to yourselves as some special place which exists under special conditions, not like others?
0Da da dvaputin.
be mebe 14-15go to sleep one nightwake uprealize i was dreaming of something related to cats and youtubeeat breakfastthe dream also took place in a land like where i liveclouds liftedi can see itit was a dream about me watching a youtube video, 30 minutes, title: Giant cats invadeit goes that one guy was walking with his catlose catguy spills drinkcat drinks itcat mega evolves into giant catspread virussave dayrealize i'm a macrophilego to shrinkplay smb1fuckthisagain.jpeggrab moyshroymturn off neshere i am now, on wii u playins sm3dwpost to 4chanHelp me /b/retheren
Find a better female singer than Björk.Protip: you can't
2miley cirus
You're a weird cunt if you think her music is enjoyable
Sandra Nasic
2miley cyrus
/thread
5Go back to 8th grade
2Lzzy Hale
It seems OP is the winner
Anna Murphy
Gloria Gaynor
Bonnie Tyler
Axl Rose
my bags under my eyes are growing bigger and soon enough i'll look like a skull. i sleep 7-8 hours everyday, and i'm still very tired on the mornings. anyone else who has this problem, and anyone who knows how to solve it without eating healthy, sleeping 8+ hours etc etc. thanks.
rate my ban on /v/irgins
flamewar for /v/Daily saying on /b/Fucking kek
5janitors are fags mods are cucks, moot is dead, thanks for the ride this is the end
6epic XD
5Unfortunately true. This is the most retarded ban I have ever seen.
2kill yourself you fuckin faggot fuck off to reddit, didint u get upvoted today you cunt
2inb4 ban
2lol he wont get ban because mods are retarded i'm 16 and been browsing for like 4 hours still no ban
0if you get like some random reports from faggots u get banned for sure dude, and then u gona struggle with changing the ip
0I'm 12 and so what?
Trying to get banned on /v/ right now./v/297428751
2u gona get banned from all boards
7struggleLike it's fucking hard
7when ipconfig release and renew stops working u will feel it
7strugglenigga all I have to do is click reconnect and im back
Woah, the thread escalated quickly.
Would you hide escaped pig-killer?
/t/e/s/t/i/n/g/
9MARRY ME
9for /t/e/s/t/i/c/l/e/s/ ?
7go away, maebe
man boobs?
9you failed the test
, 
Who is she, and is this shopped?
Just watched the last episode of Game of Thrones, "The Dance of Dragons", and I gotta say, I almost ejaculated at the end. The scene was epic. It also confirms that Tyrion and Ser Jorah are bad asses.We really need to talk about this /b/. Only one episode left in the season.
Jon Snow confirmed for getting shanked by that whiny little kid. He'll survive into next season because of the thousands of girls wet over him
fucking stannis man why did he do that to his daughter??and also aren't the dragons supposed to have extra strong skin ? i mean he got hit by a simple spear that's suck they'll be useless at a war versus an army...
0I was thinking the same thing. That kid might try to kill him.
s5e10 spoilers: After sending a raven to ensure that the meddling Ser Davos dies by "accident" at Castle Black, Stannis and his army prepare to lay siege to Winterfell. Just as the first assault is about to begin, there is a clap of thunder and R'hllor himself appears in a huge fireball. Stannis's eyes glow malevolently as he gazes upon his deity and he tells the Lord of Light to do whatever must done. The demon extends a huge crackling arm and opens his hand, revealing Rickon Stark. "No!!" screams Sansa. "What kind of irredeemable villain would burn an innocent child?!" The camera zooms in on Stannis's leering face for two minutes while we all boo and hiss. The flames consume Rickon as the walls of Winterfell begin to shake and crumble. SUDDENLY, the gates smash open and RAMSAY BOLTON sallies forth with TWENTY GOOD DOGS in tow! The hounds pounce upon the God of Flame and Shadow before he can react to this fresh bullshit, tearing him to shreds. Ramsay makes stupid faces for the camera as he removes his armor and shirt to face the wicked Stannis in single combat. Stannis stumbles around and slips in the snow and does other unkingly stuff whereas Ramsay fights like a total badass. However, instead of killing him quickly Ramsay toys with and humiliates Stannis while mugging for the camera and delivering one liners that include the titles of the books. Finally, wounded and exhausted, Stannis drops to his knees and begs for mercy. Ramsay grins. "I guess you could say you're... paying the iron pric–"Stannis's head rolls off his shoulders. Ramsay looks shocked. Smash cut to BRIENNE OF TARTH standing over the stupid kinslaying failure's corpse! "I killed you because you weren't as good of a parent to Shireen as your wife was," she quips. "Mothers will always be the better parent, in the end." As the stronk independent giantess turns she sees Ramsay Bolton cowering in fear. "Relax," she tells him. "At this point all I do on the show is kill good characters."
7He is definitely going to stab him.
3
1fucking stannis man why did he do that to his daughter??shitty writers that only want that whore and her nutless shitskin army to be portrayed in a good light.
1Stannis is done. He'll take the North but that's as far as he gets. You're thinking of Smaug from the Hobbit. These are real dragons.
2You have just made my dayHavn't laughed this hard for a while
7yeah could you tl;dr this for me
1Did you miss all of the chevasse games? Dragons can easily be hilted by calvary. You still need to be strategic about employing your dragons.
2Nice job taking all that time to type that out you retard, how stupid are you?
0these are real dragons
2I don't think you are taking this show seriously.
4you tell me
1Asoif dragons are almost unstoppable when they can fly and maneuver in open ground. Daniel san just had hers stationery and was basically using it as a wall for protection. That's how not to train your dragon
1The dragon is still relatively young though.
0Originally it was the whole knights watch that stabbed and browned him in a deposition ritual. He comes back as flame Jesus, because he's the bastard son of aegon 6.
0i can't describe what i felt when i saw her riding that dragon xDyou think somehow bran is involved? i mean it could make sense since dragons are known to be untamable beasts and she just gets on top of it and starts flying around as you can see im clueless cuz i didnt read any book other than the first one
0This is how i felt
8wat? did i missed something or ? we just dont know what happend to him after some crow stab him right ?  and he just the son of lyanna stark & rhaegar targaryen 
0No...No...No man, what's wrong with you?!? Bran is not involved. He's doing some other shit at the moment. Dealing with his own issues. Dany called him. Remember when she closed her eyes and seemed to pray for a Deus Ex Machina?
2let see if she will set the other 2 free now
2My bad. The guy who kidnapped lyana stark. You missed the end of Jon's sorry in same of dragons apparently. They mad he let wildlings in, gave them food, broke the rules of conduct with stannis, and he gets a bunch of dudes killed. So they stab him 37 times and burn him with his sword. He is rumored to come back more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
The Red Priestess is trying to force Stannis to fit the Azor Ahai prophecy, even though we know good and we'll it isn't him.Lived under the red comet?CheckBorn of salt and smoke?well, he did have a smokey ritual on a beachDoes he have a flaming sword named lightbringer?he had a fake flaming sword that definitely was not light bringerDoes he have dragons?Well, he is from Dragonstone...Has he made a sacrifice of someone close to him? yeah, his fucking daughter.Is he of the Targaryian bloodline?nah.Mel believes Stannis is the hero of prophecy, but is just trying too hard with the wrong guy.
0απο που εισαι?
6noi i know the story with the giants, but the "respawn" shit i didnt knew about it ... but its pure logic since imo he is the son of lyanna & rhaegar wich mean he would survive fire
2Yeah it did look like she was summoning it. however someone told me on this other thread that bran is trying to learn how to control the dragons therefore i made this assumption. it looks completely mad now xD
2Oh...she will....she definitely will. I hope she burns all of Meereen.
9 Im brazilian but im trying to learn greek ^_^ its a beautiful language, but its hard to find something that can help on this quest
I can't wait for Dany to become full out evil."Fire and blood."
7We call this foreshadowing kids:DAENERYS: One day your great city will return to the dirt as well.HIZDAHR: At your command?DAENERYS: If need be.
0protip, get a tutor and some greek friendsonline friends don't count, you need to listen them speakbut still i think you're trolling, greek letters on that filename? αν τρολαρεις , το μουνι της μανας σου το εχεις δει? οεο
This is the last episode of GOT
3that picgood bait, I guess it makes many people mad
3burned some serious time on this when i was a child amstrad cpc 6128 didn't save games so every time from scratch
3oh hai /tg/
3
daenerys like a bossleft partywe're fucked says tyrion as they get stabbed on all fronts
they are the best
2You were saying?
6She's going to snap one day, return to her Targ roots, and begin using hardcore violence to get what she wants.You tell me that's not evil.
4Fuck I hate these guys.
6epic
6i am glad jorah is back
8
1its kind of hard to find greek friends in brazil xDi think skype could do the trick. but abou the file i really didn't think too much about the name i guess i had the greek alphabet turned on on keyboard and thats it... still want to learn the lang though i'd love to travel there it would make everything much more easy and would be a great experience but i never left the country.. never been abroad 24 for years on this pile of dump they call brazil =/
2Deus machina as an insult is the unexpected use of supernatural forces to explain anything. This is not ex machina because the dragon themed dragon lady with dragons used her dragon to protect herself like any sane person would.
6But he has greyscale. Also, he touched Dany so i wonder if it's contagious at this point.
6Dany gets greyscale.becomes dragonHBO makes dragon sex scenes.it's ok, they are just adopted
8What's evil about feudalism?
9smh
I wonder what will be the reaction of ser davos when he will come back to see the princess has been burned, i hope he will kill the red witch.
7yeah because complete and total incest hasn't been done before
9start watching greek tv/series/youtube videos with proper subs, as time time passes by, remove the the subs, think this would help
6XAXAXAXAXAXA
7
2He gonna be PISSED!!!!
6Thanks!! ^_^
also, brace yourself, countless "Kill it with fire" gif's, waiting to happen..
1Didn someone say that stannis would have him killed on the trip?
6He better. But there has to be some sort of showdown. Davos has been Stannis' whipping boy for too long. But HE GONNA BE PISSED!!!!
A bus just crashed into a parked car in front if my house. What do /b/
drown yourself in some tomatosaucego outside and pretend to be a victim
continue living your shitty life, don't worry you'll die eventually.
7Holy shit, this.
7That's the kind of anon, I actually like to see on /b/OP: You don't even have to pretend anything. Just sit around somewhere on the street and just give the impression
7"House"implying
7This.
7This
7I dint have tomato statue and police just arrived
7Don't forget to post results OP.
9Pussy. An hero, now.
9No sauce?Stab yourself in chest OP, then pretend.
Peenoise MOBA gaming at its finest.
How did the 50's-70's go from formal to dirtback hippie?
6normalfuck you palwomen only as houswives3 children per familyhating any race that wasn't whitehow the fuck is that normal? I swear I'm NOT a SJW but your ignorant ass post has rustled my jimmies
62/10 made me reply
Nignogs got rights
6not being able to read
5took that bait like a snake on a rake
6Communists infiltrated and subverted, like jews always do. They control the media which means they control what the average person "feels" is "true". Look at the endless lies and propaganda pumped out about WW2: the nazis are the most ebil pplz evar you guize! To this day they're still pumping out that propaganda. WW2 was about SPREADING and FIGHTING FOR communism - plain and simple. Communism is judaism, again plain and simple. And jews destroy their host populations by promoting perversion, degeneracy, and extreme mental illness until they have enough people emotionally hooked on what they're saying so that they go out and vote away everyone else's rights, freedom, liberty, and privacy.
Learning to love is like shitting in public. Once you let go of your insecurities it just kind of falls out? -Abe Lincoln Famous Quotes Thread
2 [makes beeping sounds]
"It's not gay if your friend has a jelly bean stuck in his ass and you have to fish it out with your penis."-Vladimir Putin
"Check 'em"-Bill Nye
, 
Fuck! It's on the tip of my tongue...what is this wrestlers name again? Can't remember for the life of me.
4John Cena.
That's randy savage.
Stone Bald Steve Ostrich
4Steve Austin, you're welcome.
4barack hussein obama
Luke warm Larry Lubbock
4Junk Yard Dog
0Do you even WWE?
4Stone cold steve austin
0this poster is a liar.do not trust what he says.
His name is on his shirt, you fuck wad.
4995
8Duh faggots. Greatest wrestler of all time
4Rock Hot Bill Houston
Ice Cube
that's dog the bounty hunter
That's fucking Goldberg you retarded cunts.
4WHAT!?StoneWHAT!?ColdWHAT!?SteveWHAT!?AustinWHAT!?reminder that this gimmick existedWHAT!?
0
5Probably b8,but,welcome new friend
0Newfag, fuck off.
6Why so edgy?!?
The Undertaker
4Gangrel.
Frozen rock bob missisipi
4Mey Rysterio
4Hulk Hogan
4RED HOT DAVE CHICAGO
Handsome Jimmy Valiant
4Obviously Dwayne Johnson
0Nice troll
Rock Warm Jeff Dallas
the rock
9Dallasi get it, my fucking sides
Sugar tits
4Phil Mitchell
4what is this wrestlers name again? Can't remember for the life of me.It's in the file name of your picture you fuckin' genius! Look before you post such things!
stoned cuckold steve austism
Angry Mr. Clean Guy
0871043Boy that summer breeze rolling in.
4Super Chill Stu Houston
7top kek
the pebble
Mr. Freeze
MIKE. BROWN.
Fang McFrost? Ice Dagger? Otto Von Cold?
4Wreck it Ralph
0Get a load of this fucking faggot
I think it's pic related
8Die in a car fire
Stern curled Stan astird
4Kill your faggot self immeidetly
4RockHot AustinSteve
Water Warm Pleb Causin
Benedorm cucumberschnitzel
4His name is Coldstone, he retired from wrestling and opened a chain of ice-cream stores.
4His name is Steel Beam Jet Fuel
1immeidetlyI'm sorry, I don't speak retarded.What do you want me to do again?Could someone clarify what this Down is saying? HELP ME?
4*Retarded
4Stone cold drunk wiser
, 
01101101 01101111 01100100 01110011 00100000 01100001 01110010 01100101 00100000 01100110 01100001 01100111 01110011
0010011100110111100101100001000000100111101010000001000000110100101110011001000000110000100100000011001100110000101100111
0Your dead
01000001 01101101 00100000 01001001 00100000 01100100 01101111 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110100 01101000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01110010 01101001 01100111 01101000 01110100 00111111
Rollin
0110111001100101011100100110010001110011
0100111001101111011101000110100101100011011001010010000001101101011001010010110000100000011100110110010101101101011100000110000101101001001000000010000100100000010000010110110100100000010010010010000001100001011011100010000001101111011011000110010001100110011000010110011100101100001000000110111001101111011101110010000000111111
Trust me.01101000 01110100 01110100 01110000 00111010 00101111 00101111 01100010 01100110 01111001 00101110 01110100 01110111 00101111 01000101 00110111 01100110
0110110101100110011101110010000001110011011011110110110101100101001000000110011001100001011001110110011101101111011101000010000001101101011011110110010000100000011101000111001001100001011011100111001101101100011001010111010001100101011100110010000001110100011010000110100101110011
501101001 00100000 01100111 01110101 01100101 01110011 01110011 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01100001 01110010 01100101 00101100 00100000 01100110 01100001 01100111 01100111 01101111 01110100
011010000110010001101011011010100110011001110011011001000110011001101000011000010110101001110011011001000110011001110011011001000110110001101010011001100110110001110011011001000110101001100110011011110110100101100100011100110110101001100110011010100110111101101001001100110110101001101111011010010111011101100101011010100110011000111000001100000110101001110111011001010110011001101010011101110110010101101001011001100110111101101010011001010110111100110000001110010110010101101010011001100110110001101011011100110110010001101010011001100110111101101001011100110110010001101010011001100110110001101011011000010111001101100100011010100110011001101111011010010111001101100100011010100110110001101011011001100111001101100100011010000110111000101100011001100110000101101110011100110110101101100110011000010111001101100100011101010110111001100110011100000111001101100100011011010110011001101111011010010111001101100100011010000110011001100001011011110110100101110011011001000110101001100110011010110110110001100100011100110110100001100110011010010111010101110011011001000110101001100110011010010110111101101010011001010111001101101111011010010110011001100001011010010111010101100110011001010111011101101001011011110110011001100100011011100110010101110011011010010111010101100110011010000111001101100100011101010110100101100110011000010110101001110011011001000110111101101001011001100110100001101010011100110110010001101001011011110110011001101010
1You're a faggot.
0fuckin newfag learn the hacker language
701001111 01110010 00100000 01110000 01100101 01101111 01110000 01101100 01100101 00100000 01110100 01101000 01100001 01110100 00100000 01110101 01110011 01100101 01100100 00100000 01110100 01110010 01100001 01101110 01110011 01101100 01100001 01110100 01101111 01110010 01110011 00101110
1Holy shiiiiiiiiiiit
501110100 01101000 01101001 01110011
1Oh fuck.
01110100 01101000 01100101 00100000 01100111 01100001 01101101 01100101
501110100011100100111010101100101
2hacker languagekekd
1Am I going to prison. inb4 party van
0They are
100010 1010101010 010001011 0101111000 1101010110 10101001 10111000 01011100 210011010
2binary numbershacker languagetop fucking kek
1I aint clickin that shit nigga
3def staright to prison
eW91IGFyZSBhbGwgZ2F5
301101000 01110100 01110100 01110000 00111010 00101111 00101111 01110111 01110111 01110111 00101110 01101101 01100101 01101101 01100101 00101110 01100011 01101111 01101101 00101111
10110011001110101011000110110101100100000011110010110111101110101
1The 0 after the 1 should be a 1 and then it's spot on
6201101001 01100110 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01110010 01100101 01100001 01100100 00100000 01110100 01101000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01100001 01110010 01100101 00100000 01100001 00100000 01100110 01100001 01100111
001111100110110101101111011001000111001100100000011000010111001001100101001000000110011001100001011001110111001100001101000010100000110100001010010110010110010101100001001000000111011101100101001000000110101101101110011011110111011100100000011000100111010101110100001000000110000101110010011001010010000001111001011011110111010100100000011001110110111101101110011011100110000100100000011001000110010101101100011010010111011001100101011100100010000001101111011100100010000001110111011010000110000101110100
1000010002 0000111001 2 2 2 1000100000010000001111100111100002
0What is that mean?
3he doesn't know how to check if a link is legit or notYour loss fag lord
1I aint shitting that click nigga
101101000 01101111 01110111 00100000 01100100 01101001 01100100 00100000 01110101 00100000 01101011 01101110 01101111 01110111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111 00111111
1You're the faggot here my friend
3011010110110010101101011
1sexiest thing I've seen in years
132There it is.kek
1
01001010 01110101 01110011 01110100 00100000 01110100 01101111 00100000 01101100 01100101 01110100 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01101011 01101110 01101111 01110111 00100000 01000110 01000010 01001001 00100000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01101101 01101111 01101110 01101001 01110100 01101111 01110010 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110100 00110001 01101000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01110100 01101000 01110010 01100101 01100001 01100100 00100001 2Yeah dude, its super secret thing, welcome to the hacker club and first rule is to dont talk about it, NEVER!
7learn hacker language or fuck off faggot, fuckin newfagalso sauce on this girl
9Who you calling kiddo? You little fucking cunt
1010011000100111101001100 XD
1let me google that for youJesus, it's like one big notice for FBI, secret service, CIA and NSAFucking lol
501001001 00100000 01100100 01101111 01101110 00100111 01110100 00100000 01110100 01100001 01101011 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110100 01101000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01100010 01100001 01101001 01110100 00100000 01101101 01100001 01110100 01100101 00101110 00100000
not getting fooled again nigga
5500111110010001000110111101100101011100110110111000100111011101000010000001101011011011100110111101110111001000000111010001101000011001010010000001110001011101010110010101100101011011100010000001101111011001100010000000110100011000110110100001100001011011100000110100001010011011100110010101110111011001100110000101100111
6Yeah, because they Googled it. Of course.get your shits right
9nice faggot now it doesnt count fuck off summerfag
116 145 170 164 040 154 145 166 145 154 040 150 064 170 060 162 040 164 141 154 153 056kek
1A newfag call me a summerfag /b/ these days
Let me show you something nude:01101000 01110100 01110100 01110000 00111010 00101111 00101111 01110111 01110111 01110111 00101110 01101101 01100101 01101101 01100101 00101110 01100011 01101111 01101101 00101111 01101101 01100101 01101101 01100101 01100100 01100101 01100110 00101111
9didint i tell you to fuck off summerfag, dumb fuckin kids these days01101011 01100101 01100101 01110000 00100000 01110100 01110010 01100001 01101110 01110011 01101100 01100001 01110100 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110100 01101000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01100110 01110101 01100011 01101011 01101001 01101110 00100000 01101110 01100101 01110111 01100110 01100001 01100111
Give me trips and I'll deliver.
8DatSheffy 7
01010100 01101001 01110100 01110011 00100000 01101111 01110010 00100000 01000111 01010100 01000110 01001111 00001010 00001010
001001101 01101111 01101111 01110100 00100000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01100100 01100101 01100001 01100100 00101110 00100000 01001001 00100000 01101101 01101001 01110011 01110011 00100000 01110100 01101000 01100101 00100000 01101111 01101100 01100100 00100000 01100100 01100001 01111001 01110011 00100000 00100001 00100000 00101111 01100010 00101111 00100000 01101001 01110011 00100000 01100100 01111001 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110011 01101001 01101110 01100011 01100101 00100000 00110010 00110000 00110001 00110010 00101110 00100000 01001001 01110100 00100000 01100111 01100101 01110100 01110100 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01110111 01101111 01110010 01110011 01100101 00100000 01100101 01100001 01100011 01101000 00100000 01111001 01100101 01100001 01110010
01001111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 00100000 00100000 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111Here you go
9fuck off already we wont be friends, and no i wont let you suck on my dick i have a girlfriend
01001010011001010111011101110011001000000110010001101001011001000010000000111001001011110011000100110001  ▲▲ ▲
0all these newfags man...124 150 145 163 145 040 156 145 167 146 141 147 163 040 143 141 156 047 164 040 145 166 145 156 040 157 143 164 141 154 056
0MODS Spiderman thread.Seriously Binary is the best you guys can do?
301000110 01110101 01100011 01101011 00100000 01101111 01100110 01100110 00100000 01101110 01100101 01110111 01100110 01100001 01100111 00101110 00100000 01000111 01101111 00100000 01100010 01100001 01100011 01101011 00100000 01110100 01101111 00100000 01101100 01100101 00100000 01100110 01110101 01101110 01101110 01111001 00100000 00111001 01100111 01100001 01100111 00101110 00100000 01010000 01100101 01101111 01110000 01101100 01100101 00100000 01101100 01101001 01101011 01100101 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01101011 01101001 01101100 01101100 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 00101111 01100010 00101111
7043 117 143 164 141 154 163 101 162 145 102 145 164 164 145 162
01001111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 00100000 00100000 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111
3+uÅñìÜúeóæfæññæówhats that
9kekd
9newfag
701011001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01100001 01110010 01100101 00100000 01100001 00100000 01100110 01110101 01101110 01101110 01111001 00100000 01100111 01110101 01111001 00101110
164 150 162 145 141 144 040 151 163 040 147 157 156 156 141 040 064 060 064

4124 150 141 164 047 163 040 164 150 145 040 160 154 145 142 040 167 141 171 040 164 157 040 144 157 040 151 164 056
01010100011011110111000000100000010010110110010101101011
Sick of seeing threads featuring sexually exploited young people on this site. Mods need to get off their asses and ban those responsible
2go fuck yourself cunt, this is /b/.
2sexually exploited young peopleare you talking about CP or regular porn?
but why can't you define exploitation?
2Nigga what you babbling about?
4Anything that appeals to heterosexual cisgender males. And it if appeals wot white cishet dudes then its rape.
4but that's not correct
fail b8 is fail , either tits or gtfo. the funny thing? just had to select 3 cheese pizzas to prove im not a robot ...my sides
, 
What does /b/ use to hide Internet searches from big brother? Pic not related
Bump
well Tor was developed by DoD and is absolutely traceable by the gov't. There's probably nothing you can do, so just accept the fact that uncle sam knows you wank to trannys.
/b/ i fucked up bad this time...
How many are dead OP?
5cool
Relax, Tom. It's just dishes.
good for you
Be meeating spagethowdogreentext.JpegCat comes inThinks the Spaget is a fucking animu monsterStarts Hissing and shitTell it to shutup and spank itItruns.jpegI forgot to turn off the burnersHear the loudest fucking shriek everBrb gonna go get another keyboard
worst trip you've hadITTbe 17average partysee friends with waferswhere'd you find this?some mexican kidgo to over to manuelbaked aftake some of thisaprehension intensifieschew itfunny taste7 hours of running away from an assortment of horrible creatureswake up naked in some random guy's yardmfw i will never take acid again
bump
eat morning glory seedsnothingchug bottle of robotussintornado sirens go offhallucinate clownstrip for 48 hourshave panic attacks for the rest of my life
7If that actually happened you'd be so sick you wouldn't be able to do anythung. You'd be throwing up everywhere
4It actually happened. Was really sick for a couple hours then I was hallucinating so hard I guess I forgot I felt sick? I also have no gag reflex.
9be meat renaissance camp groundssome guy doling out aciddecide to take a couple hitsnever done it beforestart wandering the camp groundsfind a group of people smoking weedturns out their heater wasn't working and it was coldfix it and smoke a bitstart wandering againfind new camp groundan RV with flood lights all around it and country music blaringdecide to check it outgroup of ~15 peoplefind the girls that are singlego after one that I likedher friend was playing wingwoman hardcorekept passing me drinkswe start dancingacid intensifieslights begin to have trailsdecide to close the dealwalk back to her tenttake her clothes offgo down on hertaste the sweetest pussy I have ever tasted in my entire lifecont
smoke some salvia with buddiesfeel like a giant standing on Earthwhatthefuck.jpggeneral crazy shit happensplants talking to me and shitsober up what feels like hours laterHey man, you alright? stare at handsdoesn't look rightuhh, no I'm good I'm going to head homego home and stare at my hands until they don't look "wrong" Shit was crazy
Bullshit. You don't run away from imaginary things on acid/lsd. You would remember why you are naked and why you are in someone's garden. Underage b&
0she's absolutely loving itshe starts moaninggrabbing my hairbegging not to stopshe closes her thighs on my earsbegin to hear my heart beatingclose my eyesjust me and my heartbeat nowonly darknesssuddenly the environment becomes visiblemountains far in the distancegently sloping downwards into a beautiful valleya fresh spring dribbling down at the edge of the valley feeding a waterfallbegin to realize that I created all of thisI must be godtest my hypothesismove the mountains with my own handsoh shitI AM god.think to myself "I know, I'll reverse the flow of water"concentrate as hard as I can"OH MY GOD YOU'RE FUCKING DISGUSTING WHAT THE FUCK"snap out of itI threw up into her pussyshe's freaking out and slapping at my faceI'm still wearing my clothes so I just get up and leaveshe's still in the tent trying to figure out what just happened or some shittake out a few stakes out of the groundknock her tent down whiles she's screaming insiderun the fuck awaynever saw her again.
04Kek'd hard
4A hero. That is what you are anon.
4
Be at friend's dormtook 1 tab before this dayDecide to take 3 cuz why not1 hour laterThe floor is moving manCan't walk on floor that's meltingLie down on bed that has blue waves on itFriend freaks outI'll SAVE YOU MAN DON'T DROWN ON MERams his head onto my stomachWas a fun night
 try datura for the first time in a tea form with some m8s go home while I still can before it kicks in get into my apartment see a bunch of my friends there suprise me for my birthday no one is talking and they are all just looking at me and smiling walk up them to shake their hands after shaking a couple hands they disapeare and I dont think much of it go into my room not realising what just happened thinking to myself "this us weird it should be kicking any moment now" look at my mirror and see someone standing behind me turn around and no one is there freak out and call for one of my friends he doesnt respond I walk out my room and start to look for him end up following one my other friends outside to look for my friend looking through everyones garbage cans and stuff along the whole street end up going so far that we end up at my old high school sit on the grass to take a rest with my friend start talking with him  he doesnt respond just sits there smiling at me tell him how there were people at my apartment who were doing the same thing that ge was doing  get mad/scared yell at him to talk to me get so mad I go in to tackle gim to the ground he vanishes ibto thin air mid tackle start to freak out like I was in a nightmare and tried ti wake my self then I forgot what I was doing  see another friend near the edge of the woods walk up to him he signals to follow him I end up following him to sime campsite he sits next to some old homless dude homeless dude singing and playing the guitar start to sing along and end up tippihg the dude ask the dude to call a cab for me so I can get home cause I forgot my phone
6 I meet the cab near the edge of the woods at my school me and my friend catch the cab friend pays for the fair and we go into my apartment my apartment looks different, like I wasnt at home realise we got off at the wrong house and need to get bck in the cab cab is gone friend vanishes im alone on the street freaking out bot knowing where I was I felt so sad and so alone that I just wanted to sleep on the street and wait for death befofe I crawled up into a ball I noticed my apartment building on the other side of the road praisejesus.jpeg go up into my apartment its unlocked for some reason maybe my friends left it unlocked see them tripping the fuck out tell them "you cunts are fucking trippers!!!" they just turn their heads abd look me dead in the eyes I freak out again and slam my bedroom door opened up my laptop and turned on some heavy metal shit was good fell asleep woke up wonder what the fuck happebd last night look at computer and in the youtube was a video of metal working open my bedroom door and see my friends awake as me some didbt remember what happens either and one didnt have any datura so he was only drinking that night he told me what each of our trips was like abd what we were experiencingas he told mine my memory of the day before was returbing and I could recall the events of what he was telling me turned out I went to an abandoned house thinking it was my school the homless man was just some dude camping who I eneded up giving my aprtment keys to as a tip for playing and I ended up talking to a bush for like 30 minutes I dont even remember this from my trip the taxi I caught wasnt a taxi at all, it was just some rabdom car and the dude who drove it eneded up taking me to my place knoqjng I was tripping and mugged me and was going to steal shit from my house but my sober friend told him to fuck offNever do daturaSoz if its a shitty greentext
work 3rd shifthave two days off to visit familysick and decide not to sleep for those two daysfeel like shit and am wired so I take half a bottle of nyquilstart to get a text from college roommate if I want long john silversobese as shit so hell yeshe comes and picks me up and starts smoking something called "spice"never tried it so sure I'll try ittake two Kirby-sized inhales and don't really feel anythingwe arrive at long John's and I'm just a little but dizzywe go in and I look at the menu"well you want a #4, just tell them you want a #4"repeat that 8 times in my headall the sudden I'm falling forever in a constant loophear only snippets of dialogue that my friend and the cashier are sayingcrazy fast thoughts constantly popping up then immediately leavingget to the thought that this is my hell and the rest of my life I will feel this waystill in my falling loopslow progression to where I hear my friend say holy shit while I both feel and hear myself gruntI'm starting to feel my whole back hit the floor after an infinite amount of loopseventually come back to regular consciousness with my friend and 6 other people looking down at melift open my hoodie, look left, and puke under my arm so I wouldn't get it on the floorCont.?
, 

Is Limahl Targaryen?
If we send back our robots today, Sarah would have an easy time to protect her son...iframe width="520" height="318" src="frameborder="0" allowfullscreen/iframe
Why the fuck did you post html code. Retard much?
Not really. If we sent a robot back today, it'd be carrying a nuke.
I have a question for Atheists. How can you believe with 100% certainty that there is no God when there is no proof that he does not exist? That doesn't seem like a very logical, open minded and scientific way to view the world. It seems more like your beliefs are being dictated by your emotions and not on facts just like religious people.
I'm conflicted. I guess I could call myself agnostic, but is there really a god? I often doubt myself.
8There is now.
7How can you believe with 100% certainty that there are no Unicorns when there is no proof that they do not exist? That doesn't seem like a very logical, open minded and scientific way to view the world. It seems more like your beliefs are being dictated by your emotions and not on facts just like religious people.
9Let me clarify, I don't really believe in god. Although it's still not proven either way NO MATTER HOW INSANE IT SOUNDS. There is absolutely no evidence for or against our lord Flying spaghetti monster so I have absolutely no way to disprove that flying spaghetti monster actually exists. Of course I don't believe F.S.M but I can't doubt it's existence without evidence. As OP said, it's not a very scientific way to view the world. Evidence topple's common sense and faith.
1Humanity has invented thousands and thousands of gods. Ours is just one of them. He is no more real than Harry Potter and i really don't understand people who can't wrap their head around that logic.You can argue that there is value to faith to our society and i have no problem with people who keep their faith because they believe it's a force for the better in the world, but once you start saying things like "you can't disprove god" you get into an intellectually murky situation which ultimately can only lead to ignorance. And we all know what ignorance does to people.
9well if you look at the dna of all living things it seems to be an advanced equation blended with the elements to maintain life. that's how you can speculate that there's a designer. pretty obvious, fag.
1it seems to be an advanced equation blended with the elements to maintain lifeWith no evidence of a purposeful mind behind it. You can speculate but you're speculating in absence of any meaningful evidence other than your personal beliefs.
7Oh my god I've never seen this thread before
7Op is a faggot, this is now a gay porn thread.
2
7
4
1
274Giving troll OP exactly what he wantsWut you doin, nigger?
1
GET THE FUCK OUT.GET THE FUCK OUT.GET THE FUCK OUT.
This is b8Now, that said, OP is right, Atheist is as wrong as religion, agnostic is the only true scientific way to think.You can be inclined to think that there's no god or that there is, but you just don't know it.Personally, I think that there's no god, but I just can't prove it so I don't really now
2He posts this thread to aquire gay porn? Ok? Thats over complicated.
Study enough the Christian bible you will see it's wrong. Now do the same with every other religion and you will notice the same thing. Study buddism and you might see that they may have a point.
7
7Doesn't know that OP is a forever and always axiomatically a faggotOP always wants gay porn, faggot.
6
I have a question for christians. How can you believe with 100% certainty that there is no Odin when there is no proof that he does not exist? That doesn't seem like a very logical, open minded and scientific way to view the world. It seems more like your beliefs are being dictated by your emotions and not on facts just like atheist people.
5When you really read into this, which i have at a high school level only, you have sub categories. For example you have agnostic atheists which is what it sounds like what you say you are, which is basically ''i believe in evidence, and evidence says there is no God, but if evidence existed that i found my opinion could be changed.'' tl:dr people should look at proper means of words in these threads.
Found this faggot on a game called 4chan, he's a youtuber named:MaxINFINITE.He does not know 4chan and says the word newfag isnt a real word, how about u guyz photoshop this cunt and ill send him the results.
1i meanth game Warframe
what a faggot
1
1tell him to kill him self
Does the uncensored even exist?
8Why?
8she probably wore skin colored underwear
Had it bad for this one for 20+ hrs now. Bumping for hippychick noods
, 
faces of /b/ thread?faces of /b/ thread!everybody, post your face, everybody ratei'll start
no one?
chum lee/10
0/10
hello mark dingemanse
Does anyone here know any Actionscript 3.0? Willing to pay with either 10 bucks or snapchat nudes I've recieved for some help on an assignment
9whats the problem
9I've recieved a couple of pictures of differend beaches, and I'm supposed to make a program where you choose a beachwhich is preset in the coding and a year, then the program should show you the temperature of the water in that specific year. I can make up the information myself, i just need to get these fucking codes to work
Hey /b/, can you recommend some cool stuff to buy from Amazon?What was the last thing you ordered?
ask a proud ex oakland raiderette of 5 years anything :
If we get dub with u show tit with timestamp
37Anon has spoken, OP. Tits and timestamp
While in Oakland were you ever raped by niggers?
7Dubs now show tit
3Do it
1Probably easier to ask if there was a day that she wasn't raped by niggers
3Tits or gtfo
Tits or gtfo
21wow wtf! theres nothing with oakland!
5 inb4 fat neckbeard stroking himself for this trollan
7Dubs, show us tits
3
7you heard him.tits or gtfo.
please dont be rude :
8GT I T S O RFO
Pasta is so old, it's moldy.
Does anybody have the webm where a car cuts off a bus, then a whole bunch of furries come out of the bus and beat up the driver of the car? I'd appreciate it
Anyone have some good SFM comedy shorts? Need for scientific reasons. Example = 
0What?
, 
/b/ rate me out of ten
this is my gf
Go outside/10
10/10 have a good one, mate.
8pleb
5too hot for u
4Cheer up mate
dat
10/10ur gf a shit, you can do better
0.1/10
there y
i think op is a ok im a lady
2wtf my dvd are better
Not gonna lie mate you look like rapist.
do me
, 
