shh
Can jet fuel melt steel beams
Will I get back together with her again?
Will I become a successful chef?
Will I get back with her?
Will Hannal and Roska ever get those launch codes we tried to steal in 2012?
7Wow you're a cunt OP
Will I be successful enough to sustain a house and job?
7lolz
1should I stop sleeping with my best friend's wife?
If I lose weight will I be successful?
2thanks ol wise one I knew it wasn't a big deal
should i go for it?
, 
, 
Anybody else get ESO for console?inb4 console fagAnd if you did, which console? What race/class are you playing as? Can you even play yet?
0console faggot
0Console fag
Bad investment, get ur money back asap
0I got it for ps4189Fuck off neckbeards
9What's your reasoning?
6stay mad console peasant
6True. Fucking neckbeards.
0Console faggot
first PC player to post their @name gets 15k gold in mail
Servers are down.Xbox One.
0console fag
0superior pc master race reporting in
3You have it installed all the way? I'm still downloading it.
0Consolefag
0I tried to but it's not out until tomorrow. Ps4 by the way
What game is it
0 Console fag
0MMO fails horribly on PC but is gonna be successful on consoleswhat are they thinking?
4Pc fag. How crusty is your keyboard fatty
0inb4 console fagconsole fag
5that console gamers are idiotsand it's true.
5More sales
6Crumbs from their greasy Doritos stained fingers in every crease. All while breathing heavy from masturbating for their 5th time that morning.
4That pc gamers are fags which is also true
0Haha console fagbuying the mistake of the 2014 and on console of all things
7With their pale, jaundice skin from lack of sunlight. The table full of food and energy drink cans. Not even knowing how many hours wasted staring at the computer screen. Master race indeed.
0ESOconsole fag
1
nicolas get off 4chan u scrub
0Console fag
The amount of butt hurt neckbeards hating on something is immense.
9Right? Bitter and salty fat fucks.
0ESO kekConsolefag
Fuck this game was boring.I remember in the starting area there's this room with like 100 lootable chests. I played it in the beta and thought 'oh ok, this is just a quick add in for the beta to get players some mats, so they can craft and test out more of the game'. Nope.Imagine spending 100 x 5 seconds looting something, 'cus it's not like I'm not going to loot all that shit.
0Consolefag
2beta thinks the finished game is the same
0How deep is your regret op?Also consolefag
3releasere-releasethinking they're drastically going to change fundamental problems MUH BETA.
8have you even played ESO?one of the worst games ever made in the ES series.
0Console fag
3My point is that it was the sameIt was exactly the fucking sameIt was still boring as shit spending half an hour looting a room
0Actually pre-ordered it today. Kind of a spontaneous thing. All other xbone games are boring anyway at this point Got for xboneProb going for Breton. They're pretty balanced which is why they're my favorite race.
5@Sharcove
i remember CBT:oh hey look, dungeon, lets go see whats up100 guys beat you to it, killing anything that movesoh well, must just be CBT. it will be better on release.same shit.honestly, skyrim was better.
6Then go to the next room, or city, or continent
9implying skyrim is better than any other elder scrolls
4Im thinking of doing a dark elf dragon knight, Or whatever the fuck it's called. Apparently they can tank or do some very high dps. Plus I love the fire resistance they get.
You bought possibly the shittest MMO to date on your VHS player?Fucking console faggots, you're the reason the industry is becoming cancer.
5still better than ESOat least i dont have to deal with a bunch of other people.im not antisocial or anything, but part of what made ES fun was being able to explore things and deal with situations as they arise.in ESO other people basically lawnmower the mobs and you stroll through pretty much most of the game.
8Eso isn't a great game, it's fun for a while but it does get dull, it is also almost unplayable without addons imowon't be able to get on console because the in-game ui is horrible and so many menu/ui options that should be there aren't.
0 Console fag
2You pc fags are the reason the cancer exist. Go outside faggot
5402omg its not just like world of warcraft this shit is so gay
9Nice strawman argumentHow about instead you try to convince me to buy your shirty game, sell it to me, tell me why I would want to play it. I'll wait
0Console fag
7I don't want you to play it...might have to run into your fuckstick killjoy ass in game...piss off
7What's a shirty game? Another pc fag lingo only neckbeards know?
1Just wait till the next actual TES game.It should be amazing, maybe better than Oblivion, as long as they make it a bit less fucking casual. Seriously Skyrim was built for simple-minded people and Bethesda just wanted a profit. Its sad Beth is kind of jewish now. They used to be my fave7Dragon knight? Haven't heard of that before. And yeah fire resistance is helpful
9Not like the most successful MMO in historyNo son, it's not. It's nothing like WoW and that's exactly our point.
3OK now, stop samefagging. We get it, you're a neckbeard permavirgin
2its a shame really that bethesda has got like this.makes me wonder how fallout 4 will turn out
7Typical lack of argument response I'd expect from a peasant Go ahead and enjoy eating your shit
3Right? It's better because it's on consoles. Stupid neckbeards
7It better be fucking good with how much time they've had to make it
, 
, 
, 
What do you guys fall back to when you're depressed or nothing seems to make you happy in the moment? Hobbies, drugs, friends, etc?I end up getting that feeling later at night when nobody is around. Don't want to play games, workout, sleep, or hang out with anybody but still really fucking bored.
Baw thread? Baw thread
2I usually find the kinkiest porn I can and then masturbate like my life depends on it.
I skateboard. And when I don't skateboard I just think about how much of a worthless piece of shit I am
1I guess it can be a baw thread, too. Though I've never made one of those before.2I don't really have a sex drive when I get depressed and shit. It's a pretty shitty time.
4Ah I see. That's basically me except change skating with lifting.
obviously 4chan
9I think skating just makes it worse though due to the physical pain that comes with it really weakens your morale
Whiskey, beer, and weed. Then I literally cannot be unhappy.
2alcohol? alcohol.also, checked'em.
I think about taking my keys and drive to the south
09Yea drinkin some vodka tonight. Wish I could smoke a little, too bad my job is doing a piss test soon. Would probably lighten my mood a bit better. 3I actually enjoy the muscle pain from working out, it makes me feel like I'm actually doing something worth while and that I worked hard.
4And start a New life from nothing and never Come back.
9What if his life becomes worse?
2Look forward to the next possible vacation also good music helps
2I usually talk out loud to myself more when I'm depressed, to interrupt the silence
2If you spend time with your friends you can forget about the things that makes you feel depressed, at least for a while.
7It can't im 22 everybody hates me im fat kissless virgin no money dad cut the power of my room never leave it Because he keep telling that im a Worthless shit
I usually get high and go out into nature somewhere. Well "nature" is more like shitty farmland outside of town but it works.
1Also have no friends
I take 16-24 allergy tablets and just fuckin wait. Then I smoke, listen to music, try to watch music videos and mumble. Don't do that.
As cliché as this shit is going to sound. Money and success bro. I'm 28 with a kid and a hot. Its depressing to say the least. Drugs and alchohol aren't permanent at all. If you can work to improve the quality of your life you'll eventually find happyness. All that other stuff is a waste of fucking time. Get money, fuck bitches, use condoms...kids r fucking expensive
I take really long walks on roads I've never been on
2I come to 4chan, and/or find porn. I'm pretty much never aroused before I start at these late night times, but I make it work just to kill time. Theres also weed, and shitty browser games that require minimal effort and might not even be something I'd call fun, but after I start playing, a few hours will have passed when I look at the clock. Like some Armorgames shit.I also really like to watch stand up comedy. Jim Jeffries is highly recommended. My favorite one of his is "Alcoholocaust", or something like it.4Where do you live now, friend? I'm in Louisiana. Lots of niggers down here, since they don't handle the cold too well. Keep that in mind.
9How's life with a kid? Regret it?
2Im in France buddy from north Will be heading to Lyon soon
2I do everything I can on the internet to distract me from the crushing amounts of boredom/apathythat's why I'm here
The french fag here 9am Will start drinking manzanita
1Ah, my bad. Usually, when someone says "The" south, I assume they're from the USA. If you ever get enough money, you should apply for citizenship here. Our swamp people still speak French, but it isn't as widely used as it was 30 years ago. Our new most common second language is Spanish due to the Mexicans.I'll be honest, there isn't much work to go around right now. The only reason I have a future at all is because my family owns a lot of land and we're working on legalizing weed, and I have family putting a good word in for me at their jobs.
Weed is love, weed is life
1Lyon is an awesome city. Lived here for 10 years, want to come back but I have to find a job there.When I feel bad, it's alcohol all the way.
8I can do the travel yeah could cool better than here
8Where are you from ?
9I'd like to have a hot, too. Seems impressive.
0Now I'm in Paris for work.
I try to draw or sleep. If I can go hang out with my s o I will.
8Moi dans le nord pas de calais tu taff dans quoi ?
2I fap to black cock
I used to enjoy:DrawingVideogamesMusicWalkingFilmsNow they do nothing for me, nothing makes me feel happy. Everything is shit.
8If you do come to the States, be mindful of the climate, eurofriend. Our southern summers have killed locals before.If you plan to stay, you should consider the middle or the north. All the crime happens in the cities, and the farther north you go, the less brown people there are until you get to Canada.North Carolina is recommended, the mountains there are very nice.
i tend to go fight random people on the street, especially little nigger gangbangers
2exgf left me for other guybe depressed as fuckfinals comedont know how i manage to get drunk everyday and pass the finals with awesome gradesits been a month getting drunk everydaytoday exgf came cryingtold bitch to gtfo of my houseToday i started working out again, runned 3 miles, didnt touched a beer or a cigar, feeling fuckin great, i want to see that bitch crying more often
4Yeah, I'm basically in the same boat. Everything I used to love makes me either mad or depressed. Or both.
3
4Thanks for the advice /b/ro
1Informatique, un genre de.
3Idem gars j'ai un dut info mais je vais pas aller loin avec ça je suis perdu gars
2I read books to escape this bullshit. I'm in college and I have maybe one or two friends that I hang out with. aside from that it's just me everyday at my computer playing video games or browsing the internet, when I'm not at my job or studying for class. I'm 20 and should be having fun and socializing but instead I'm just isolated and bored with life. So I read and forget that I don't have friends. I started an experiment yesterday to see if anyone would text me or message me on Facebook/steam and so far it's been 24 hours and no one has said shit. And I can only imagine that adulthood is more of the same garbage isolation and loneliness. At least I'm turning 21 soon and can buy a mini fridge and keep it stocked to the brim with liquor.
2Get drunk, cry, then I just smash paint on a canvas. It's bad abstract art but at least it keeps me occupied. Whee, look at me going all crazy with different shades of black.
9Rough shit
3Bah comme nous tous non. On t'as menti quand on t'as dit que tu serais heureux plus tard.
7Quel bande d'enculer
54I used to enjoy things more, too, but I find that my life is becoming more and more unfulfilling and that the things I like can't distract me from it any more. I can't remember the last time I've honestly and wholesomely been happy. Its probably because, so far, I'm a failure. I have no job, I live with family, and even if I had a car, I haven't even learned to drive yet. I know I need to be more proactive if I want to change anything, but I guess I just don't want it enough, because I never end up doing anything different than what I did the day before.I think the reason I can't enjoy things anymore is because deep down, in the back of my head, no matter what I'm distracting myself with, I am still aware of my stagnation, and of how disappointed I am in myself for still not doing anything to change.I also hate the city, and everyone in mine. I've nearly been collateral damage in two different drive-bys, and three people have died in either my yard or the neighbor's, so I don't go outside anymore. I would probably be happier in the countryside, with no visible neighbors.Here is a snake wearing a hat to brighten the mood.
7Je pense que je vais me bourrer la gueule puis ensuite me jeter sur les rail
i dont have time to be depressed. i just work 60 hrs a week as a head cook ay lt a japanese restaraunt and on my day off i i to do laundry, clean my house, and do my other job. my other job is a house manager at a sober living. that i do in mornings before work during my break, after work and sleep there and do that on my day off. and going back to school to finish last two years of my finance degree starting end of august so gunna add that to my schedule and work less to juggle everything and have enough time to study. weekends dont exist, i dont have a life, i dont have time to be bored, i dont have time to be unhappy. i enjoy my work, im a workaholic, i take pride and put 100% into everything i do and that is the key to a happy. successful life, bet he best you can be, grow the fuck up, dont be a lazy bitchthen when you have that little bit of free time to yourself you can enjoy it. stay busy, stay active, push yourself to get better and better. work on yourself as a person. change character defects to mold yourself into the best version of you. kick ass in life. its far from easy. it takes time and hard work. but it pays off.also i live like a nigger. i dont spend any money expect $370/month on rent. work is an 8 min walk from home. i dont oen a car. i spend $80 a month on cigs. i save up every penny. since im a cook i just eat for free at work. and my day off just make something cheap with whatever veges i have lying around the house. i wont live like this forever. once i finish school and get that entry lvl financial analsyt position i can kick back work my way up, by kick back i mean not work so much, make way more money, climb up the corporate ladder and be set for life.i plan to live alone, i dont need much to be happy. dont want an expensive house, no wife, i fucked up already an c.f. have a kid on the way.... but ill mold him to be like me but better.
0Je sais que ça vaut rien sur /b/ mais j'espère que tu le fera pas. Y a moyen de changer sa vie, j'y arrive petit à petit.
3DUT info et tu trouves vraiment que dalle ?
good and only good jokes that made you actually laugh out loud when heardbetter if greentextedA woman walks into a BMW dealership.looks at a bmw that looks perfect for her and she gets close to inspect it.when she bends to touch the interiors thru the window she farts very loud.embarrased, she looks around to check if anyone noticedand right next to her is the car dealer''Good morning M'am, what can I help you with?blushed and uncomfortable she asks:''h..how much for this car?''the dealer says:''M'am, If you farted when you touched the interior, for sure youre gonna shit yourself when I tell you the price!
op is in his 50s
4heres one A Muslim guy suffered of ocassional bleedings.one day the Muslim took an elevator and suddenly had a bleeding, when he reached the bottom floor the Jewish doorkeeper saw him, called an ambulance and went to the hospital with him.at arrival the doctor says to the Jew-we urgently need O+ blood for the patientand the Jew donated the blood for him.the next month the Muslim recovers and calls the Jew:-in appreciation for saving my life I will give you a brand new Rolls Royce.the Jew is speechless and very glad for that.then a year later the same thing happens, the Muslim suffers a bleeding, the Jew calls the ambulance and goes to the hospital with him. again the Muslim needs O+ blood and the Jew donates his.Next month the Muslim calls him:-in appreciation for saving my life I will give you this Brand new Harley Davidson.The Jew again is speechless but he thinks '' Why the hell he gave me something so expensive last year and today only a Harley which has less value?'' but after analyze it he concluded ''well, a Harley is a Harley''.The next year the same thing happens, the Muslim suffers a bleeding, the Jew calls the ambulance and goes to the hospital with him. again the Muslim needs O+ blood and the Jew donates his. Next month the Muslim recovers and calls the Jew:- in appreciation for saving my life I will give you this Brand new Bicycle .This time the Jew is even more confused and asks:-Why did you give me a Rolls Royce the first year I saved your life, second year a Harley and this year just a bicycle? I don't get it!and the Muslim answers:-Well, Every year I'm having more and more Jew blood in me.
4hahaha you got me, you got me.
4Daddy, daddy!!what is it babe?I lost my virginityWHAT THE FUCK?!yes dad :But you are 9 years old only! how??well, do you remember my bike has no seat?Oh god, yes :well, I had sex with my boyfriend
, 
EXPOSING THE OLDFAGS; HERE'S THE SECRET TRIFORCE CODE! ▌ Row row fight the powah▐  ▌ Row row fight the powah▐  ▌ Row row fight the powah▐  ▌ Row row fight the powah▐  ▌ Row row fight the powah▐ ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▐░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▄▄▄░░██▄░░░░░░░░░░░ ░░░░░▐███▌░░▀█▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▐███▌░░░░█▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▀█▀░▄▄▄▄▀▀░░░░░░░░░░░░█▀▀███▀░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▀▄░██░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░█░██░░░▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░████▌░░▌░▄░░░░░░░░░░░░░░█░▐██▌░░▌░░▌░▄ ▌░░░░░░░░░░█░█░░░░▀░░▀░░ ▐ ▀░░░░░░░░▄█░▄█░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▄▀▀▌▌░░▄▀█░▄▀▀▌▐▌▀▀░▄▀█░▄▀▀▌▄▀▀░ ▄▀▀ ░░░░░░░░░░░░█▄▀░█░▐▌░▐▌█▄▀ ░█▀▀ ▐▌░▐▌█▄▀ ▐▌░░░█▄▀ ░░░░░░░░░░░░█░░░█▄ █▄▄▀ █▄▀ ░█░░ █▄▄▀▐▌ ▀▄ ▀▄▄▀ █▄▄▀ ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
4 ▲ ▲·▲
8Hjrrghndhurre
4▲▲ ▲
8loooooooooooooooooool summer sure is rad, fellas
4 ▲▲ ▲
[Alt+255][Alt+255][Alt+30][Enter][Alt+30][Alt+32][Alt+30]
Burn in hell
▲▲▲
▲▲ ▲amidoinitrite.jpg?
▲▲ ▲
What would you do to my girl?
4
Call the authorities to save her from whatever basement you have her locked in
4Check d.
, 
I MADE A DEAL WITH THE DEVIL on Sunday the 6th.This is how it goes:I have to resist fapping till Saturday the 13th.If I don't I will lose 10cm of my dick's length.If I win I will gain the ability to make any girl I have sex with orgasm wildly. Help me /b/ I'm a chronic masturbater i'ts so hard, I'm on day 2 and I feel like I'm gonna explode.
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
Gf just turned 18 and has been sending me nudes. Il post win for trips or originals of /b/s gfs.
roll
get
r0ll
Roll
2they see me rollin.
Roll
this is my gf, deliver
Triplets
2Oh god whats wrong with her knees?? Tell that bitch to see a doctor
Roll
Roll
Get
7they hatin
Rolling
Rolling
Aaaaaaaaaaaaand roll
Lets see some 18 year old tits. Come on guys, post em.
Roller
Fair trade. Too bad you won't hold up your end of the deal.
5555
Rerolling
5WINRAR
5well, I think that does it
5Obviously OC
5Win?Also rolling just in case
T i t s s s
0somethin somethin gonna catch me ridin dirty
Let's go OP deliver
5Winrar? Quads
rate
the lack of timestamp amuses me
, 
, 
, 
Situations where it's ok to hit a woman..
0I like Wednesdays.
If she spits on you.
0when I'm hitting your mom
0When you get tired of shaking the baby.
If she shows intent to hit you.
when she is being a fucking bitch.
weekends
Any situation where it's ok to hit anyone
5
0when you swerve to miss a cat
0When you know she won't go to the cops
2legit
24Samefag
, 
, 
close for tits guys
3Doesn't even have facecam faggot
, 
Dubs decides who we raid

Check em


Fuck ashten m8








/killler_queen420
2Roll
check 'em

6
2get in boys
6Now go get a life and realise no one raids anymore. Dubs out. Inb4/ pools closes
7Dubs checked
, 
, 
What diseases do you suffer from /b/?

ADHD. It's bad to the point coffee actually makes me chill the fuck out. I have never experienced the "caffeine high" everyone goes on about.
3what type of coffee do you drink? espresso or americano or something else?Select all images with coffee.
Shyness
1I thought that passes with age, maybe it's social anxiety.
0i have acid reflux disease and its fucking terrible
Type 1 diabetes, severe depressive disorder, hypertension.
1If there is a coffee, I have drank it. Mostly just the standard stuff. Espresso if I have a meal to go with it.
0Alcoholism. It's something I deal with everyday since 18. I'm 25 now
0that guy
2ThisAlso arthritis, I'm in severe pain almost constantly.
Gigantism of the penis
4Also arthritis, I'm in severe pain almost constantly.How old are you? I don't know anything about it is there no relief?
2
0hay fever, fucking histamine
0uhh, emm: panic disorder but this is getting better really, allergic asthma mostly fur and maybe I'm an alcoholic but I have not decided about this yet
0crohnsits not fun as each day is about living around it.but i do get lots of pain meds, so atleast theres that
6allergic asthmathis
0This.
0Golden Hars syndromeScoliosisHemifacial MicrosomniaI have no neck, I have one kidney, i look like a monster. At least Im not black
1wtf is that like?
0I have no neckwhat?
I do big cums and mushroom big penis.
0autism
5
Eczema
5Yea, I literally have no neck.
2Basically me. Everytime I see this I laugh cause its me but hes in better shape.
0Fuck that guy
Ulcerative colitis.welp. At least its not crohns.
being lonely
1fuck that was awesome
0.Does anyone suffer from niggerism?
asthma
0mortality
5ive had it since i was 17, 22 now. and at the moment its okish. i have to watch what i eat mostly. like no sloppy greasy stuff, no dairy, no digestible type stuff like seeds, legumes.if i do, i can expect to run to the bathroom till all the food is thru me. pain when that happens in the gut like someone is gripping ur inerds. but i say im doing okish now as i had a surgery when i was 18 that took out the really infected part of my colon. before that my colon would close shut, and get this... anything i ate and turned to fecal matter would come back up thru my fuckn mouth... and id usally be in the hosp as id be all fucked up when this was going down. dehydrated. weighed around 135 and im 6'1. but the dark days seem to be long past me.some people have it a lot worse.i take pills for it now and the pain pills make me a happy camper. so just be happy with the decent health i have now.
6dank memes are the only thing that helps
2That's not a diseases, you just want to blame something else.
7how do you live?
Hepatitis c, hsv2
Alports syndrome wtf is thatTLDR kidney failure deafness blindness and all symptoms associated with those. Also adhd.
9wuts dat
3anything i ate and turned to fecal matter would come back up thru my fuckn mouth...oh dear
3nigger
6aids
2White, got the hsv from a girl, no idea about the hep our how long I've had it.
Acute athsmaI use a nebulizer every night just to get to sleep.I also have add, it's like for every idea or thought i have, a whole parlement is in my head debating them all with no one being able to come to a decision.
3fuck man, keep at it.glad to hear you're traveling okish.
0Very sadly.
thats what i have its not that badim started swimming like 8 years ago so my chest looks pretty decent now
I have a nice little series of neurological disorders. misophonia, with both auditory and visual triggersreally bad sensory processing disorder, basically have the nerve wiring of an autistic person; hypersensitive as fuck, delicate touches drive me nuts, my own clothing has caused me to break down and scream in publicmanic depression, although I get a lot done in my manic phasedisplay a few symptoms of OCD and avoidant personality disordernot sure if this is some kind of synesthesia or what, but I see words flashing rapidly when I think of or hear them, I experience most sound in a tactile way, and I often see shit distorted in a psychedelic fashionpretty sure I might actually be autistic in addition to all this shit, because I display symptoms all over the spectrumDespite all this, I'm functional and a straight-A student in a pretty hardcore college. I have, however, been told by a shrink that I'm "a psychiatrist's wet dream"
1Could you build muscle around that?
Cold Urticaria allergy to cold, essentially it's pretty shitty but I have a mild case so my fingers just swell and itch when I hold a cold beverage and if I'm dumb enough to go in cold water I get hives.
borderline psychosis from tripping too much
0whoah man
2lol9thanks mano. good wishes to you as well
6How does that even work?
Idk what it's called but my heart won't stop beating and it's terminal.
5ofcourse you can but my chest is not that bad like on the wiki picture
5so you just look buff?
Anxiety most likely related to ecstasy use. At the very least I think it got worse from that. I'm also agoraphobic for the same reasons.
3Oh, you poor thing.
9You probably got shit cut with speed. Almost certainly, actually.
constantly high
6as any allergy basically, immune system overreacting to shit, not sure how I developed it but it started around middle school for me
0Its called OP
0Whoah, what?7Huh. I had never even heard of this before.
3i know a good doctor that cuts those offdr shekelstein look him up on goggle
6ur fucked
4Acid reflux and arthritis... Sounds like gout.
0I suffer from newfaggery. It's kind of like Tourette's, in the way I randomly shout MODS and spam 4chan with nigger memes from Twitter.
0bordering on asburgers i can function normal to an extentgf is mildly autisticwe go together well
Niggerism in my face
6Yeah most people haven't so they tend not to believe me and think I'm fucking with them if I tell them lol
You have been visited by the Great Moon Spivey of Great Psychic, if you reply to this post with "thank you Great Spivey" then you will attain your dream
I recently found out my dad has bipolar disorder so I could have that going for me.Besides that depressionsocial anxiety Anyone have BD? I read it develops in the late teens to early twenties. My depression started over the past couple years and I'm 20. What am I in for? What are the medications like? I'm on Prozac now.
3kekkity kek3Eh, I take it in stride. I don't mean to sound conceited or anything, but I think that all of the extra white matter and cross-wiring in my brain can be an intellectual advantage. I'm a genius, and I think that went hand-in-hand with all of the neurological problems. It's cool being able to get through a math problem when I'm stuck because I remember how that particular proof feels in a tactile sense, I'm great with language, and I'm really good at connecting seemingly unrelated concepts in my head. And there are little survival mechanisms I've learned for dealing with the sensory stuff. Shit moving in your peripheral vision? Close one eye or make a little shield on either side of your face with folders or your hands. Sounds driving you mad? White noise earbuds like the ones people use for tinnitus. Socks driving you crazy? Turn them inside-out and cut off the seams. Feeling people's footsteps in your feet driving you nuts? Combats boots and a thick rug in your room. Clothes driving you nuts? Find ones that don't shift against your skin. As for things randomly getting trippy, that doesn't really bother me, so whatever. 1I hate it when folks don't take a legitimate problem seriously. Same thing happens with my misophonia.
4Thank you Great Spivey
Depressive disorder, anxiety
graves disease
Another new Arica thread. Really drunk now. Almost nudes. She told me other pic was a lie. Saying what I can to get nudes.
1uploaded just before 404
Make her feel guilty.
can someone post those nudes?
0She was embarrassed but she says she confident now. I'm doing what I can
bump bitch needs to send 2 pics
1It probably would've been easier to get tits, OP. It's easier to hide the fat.
Thank god OP came back we almost lost the ship but the cap'n kept it sailing
9It's impossible to hide those trips bb
7might be laying it on too thick here op.....
I'm in love with this whale. Don't think I can hold the inner white knight any longerHRNNNG
Another night on the open waves sailing for the Arica White Whale
Part 1: 2: in part 3
7nahh niggaconfirmed fact abandon thread
7Never Drop the F bomb....
0She did, not him
4tripsfactabandon threadwut?
9Nice trips. I know, but she has small tits and said she has a nice ass. 60I'm going all out to get these nudes guys. They'll be disgusting and I'll wish I never did this but I'm getting these nudes tonight. Just hang in there.
0Help me anons, he's taking controlll0Bless your sacred incognito soul!
I AM THE WHITE KNIGHT
4Whoa show off your sexy trips bb
someone probably already white knighted to hershes probably just stringing you alongshe actually got your nudes and you didn't get hersmfw shes better at this than you
, 
, 
, 
New PC building thread.. Old one 404d
6Fix those wires m8
0Not mine. It's the old image from last thread
Remember to grease your motherboard every 50000 miles.
8Here's mine 1/2
To the dude that was asking for help. I pulled this straight from Microcenter's website. Accidental DamageDrops and spills are the two main causes of damage to electronic devices. With our Accidental Damage Protection plan, drops and spills are covered along with damages from normal wear and tear.Replacement plansDesigned for hardware under $500, these plans provide assurance that if your product fails during the manufacturer's warranty, you can bring it in and we'll take care of it.So go nuts, you got "dun goofed" coverage if you pick anything from them.
9Shit
wheres your gpu m8
42/2
Will a 700 graphics card and 8 gigs of ram run most games on medium?
Pipes are a bit askew, haven't got round to fixing it yet, but oh well
Current build. Need new Monitors.
7If your trying to do 5k
1I came
4Elaborate?
Here's mine
1I've seen builds like this before and wanted to know, are those flexible tubes or no? Because from the picture they look solid with formed bends. Never done a water cooling loop so i'm gathering information.
i know this isnt this type of thread but i just got this today is it worth it or should i get something cheaper
But an it run Crysis 3?
9Nah they're solid acrylic pipes, just heat em up and the bend into shape fairly easily
5That's fucking boss, thanks for the response.
9But can it run Crysis 3?9Focus on the actual rig itself before trying to bling it up. You would not put solid good spinners on a 2004 ford accord.
99Depends. If you can afford it, go for it. But if you're at all budget conscious there are much cheaper keyboards you can get that look pretty and have some customizations but aren't QUITE as good.
0If you would, kind sir, please commence folder dump of that chick
Fatality anythingAbsolutely disgusting. They're just cheap Asrock motherboards with an ugly theme and a higher pricetag.
4ford accord
7Sadly, if I had more, I would indulge your request. From a thread with a specific theme, I'm sure you can guess the theme.
4oh no im sorry anon im not op, ii saw this thread and figured i could get someones input on my purchase. i didn't even want it i was pressured into getting it by some hot thick Russian gamer grill at best buy.
42004 ford accordI know computer. Not car. Get off me.
40aww shiet thats a nzxt source 210 right? i have the same case
8ive got the money but im just not sure if it was worth it like other then pretty colors what is actually superior then some 60 dollar keyboard
9Nah mayne, take that thing back if you don't even like it/ didn't want in the first place.
9There are better Mechanical keyboards you can get for cheaper. Razer is like Alienware/Apple. Although the product is decent it is overcharged for.
1/2
32/2 I need to clean it up and fix the poor cable management. I will one day.. I say for the 100th time in 2 years.
0nice source 210now heres my build
7Yuppp. Love it. Lots of room. Wish I got it in black though haha
3Those cables look better then anything I could do myself.
9rainbow brigade reporting for duty
3I've seen much worse cable management, you're fine as far as i'm concerned. You should do something about that dust though, that matters more than the wires. select the bread my ass captcha
6Mildly jelly
7Rainbows are pretty.
8i didn't ask for your life story just FIX EM!
12what would you guys recommend
9I like your attitude m8
3sweet shit there.
6your retarded for putting a fan next to the hdds like that i bet that rig has a negative air flow
4the only lousy thing about the case, was the standoff holes for the motherboard, a couple holes didnt take the standoffs the right way, also the front usb ports are upside down, also the headphone ports are kinda fucky and sometimes you have to twist the actual cord in the port but its a good budget case
5I think the fan is actually pulling air. Judging by how you can't see the Corsair logo on the other fans. The other ones are blowing the air out of the case, the bottom one is sucking them past the drives.
03Hyper 212brofist.
5Huh. Never experienced any of those problems. USB doesn't bother me much.
3I personally have a Corsair Gaming that I'm sure the keyboard people don't like. I bought it for the MX Cherry Blues, its loud as fuck but I like the response; and the noise isn't an issue. I don't care about the "light bleed" or anything else the key freaks go on about, blue switches and the fact it wasn't the cheapest, but also not the most expensive mech keyboard was fine for me. Beyond that mate, try some out, set some money aside and order them online and return if you don't like. But certainly don't keep something you don't like when you'll be using it everyday.
5half of the 200mm front fan is covered by the hdd cage, so the bottom fan is there to promote airflow where the 200 cant reach, step off
Is This Any Good? 
mine
8HA another source 210
7haha im retarded replied to the wrong postmeant this one 1
1fucking pleb pc nigga
9It can be upgraded to a degree if more funds come your way. But its not a bad combination for the price.
4It's not. It's actually a NZXT phantom 410
2Would I need to buy a Graphics Card to play CSGO at good frames?
6ahh yeh i see it now the hard drive slots, eh alot of nzxt cases seem to look alike from the side
9Actually that is pretty good. You will need a GPU though if you want to game. I recommend a R9 280 or a GTX 960. those are great budget cards that can play most games maxed at 1080p. They have exceptional value for your dollar.
61 or 2 gig vid card would run csgo. You'd need a graphics card in general if you wanted to play video games since it only has an onboard. But the processor and ram are well enough for day to day tasks. 1150 socket can be bumped up a a lot as the socket is still made. Again this is down the line. But in general you're good, just watch the video card length since thats a micro atx board, the case might be smaller. So watch dimensions.
9stfu fag go return your razor keyboard
6A Graphics card is 100% for almost any kind of modern gaming outside of things powered by flash engine. Thankfully the rig comes with a great PSU so you can get something beastly later down the line.For now go for a R9 280 or a GTX 960.
620685406why stock cooler? why corsair?
Heres mine:
5Don't touch me you filthy casual.
5You'll get no respect from me for buying a Dell.
8Dude you're getting a Dell!
4Can I get a good g card for around $100 that is good?
887whats wrong with Dell?recently bought an Dell for my Dad.
7Old tag line is old. My rig cost me 2600 give or take with a new monitor, so no... I'm not getting a Dell.
6Dell laptop guy here. Nothing. Literally just brand loyalty. It's been a solid laptop for 4 years.
7Not really no. But if you are going a bit cheap but still want power without seriously gimping your gaming I recommend a R7 260X or a GTX 750 Ti. Both are decent can play modern stuff at relatively high settings at 1080. Might get knocked down to like 30-50 FPS though.
6I worked for a company and we installed them in Dental offices. They under power their machines which results in failures of the mobo, ram, HDD, etc and so on. The only thing that makes them great for a business stand point is their warranty. As for a laptop, well they are what they are branding or not. But if something has an awesome warranty, there's a reason for it. Warranty can't do dick for you with a HDD full of shit just gone because the power supply fried it on its way out the door. personal experience, take from it what you want.
69Yeah there is nothing wrong with getting a laptop or a prebuilt PoS for work. Just avoid Laptops and Prebuilts that advertise themselves for gaming. They are going to rip you off so hard.
8Laptop isnt for gaming. This shits got HD 3000 graphics. I'm too fucking broke for any gaming rig
6cute, heres mine
Question for PC fags. I want a better rig but I know almost nothing about them. I haven't upgraded my gpu in a long time. I'm currently working with thisI want to upgrade to thisPC has this in it right now:Intel Core i3-4160 CPU @ 3.60GHzInstalled RAM 8 GB500W Power Supply
3it should work just dont think about putting two 970's in that lil shit
3Going to need to up that PSU for sure mate.
2That seems like an excessive amount of fansLEDseverDisgusting.
6No he won't lol. It's a 970 not a 295x2
6Psu?
1was thinking the same thing after i put them, waiting for some custom lighting to swap out some of the fans.
7Power Supply
2He'll still need to upgrade his PSU to at least a 650.
1YOU NEVER HAVE TOO MUCH FANS2015not having a pc that sounds like a vacuumISHYGDDT
6Oh, power supply. I thought that too but I read that the 970 takes less designated power than my current card. Still not sure.
2I said upgrade, not put 1000watts in it jesus christ. I have dual 290x's and 5790 i7 and i'm using an 850watt and thats probably overkill, but not by a lot.
3yes you can, your CPU is shit but you'll see huge improvement nevertheless.
7Power Supply. But you are running a power efficiant CPU and a 970 will not be that bad. Your 500W should take it.
Updated version of the one I posted a while back.
5Fan controllers are you ally.9 fans near silence
6no, GTX 260 consume more wattage than GTX 970 so he'll be fine.
9breh i run a 970 with an i5 @4.4ghz on a 550watt, 500 is fine considering its an i3
Intel i7, Geforce 9800 , m8
2I'm still thinking of my old rig that just wasn't efficient at all. And 500watts wasn't enough for a quad core not even the i family, and a 7900 series amd GPU. Not having enough power will cause some fun glitches, even though the bitch will still turn on. I'd personally would just rather have the extra head room.
Knowing /b/ you guys are probably gonna talk shit about this build.
306While we're on this topic, is the 970 worth the extra $100.00? Gtx 960 is $100.00 less and I was considering that too.
1Brah, I'm running an overlocked 280 core 1100MHz/Memory 1450MHz with an i5 2500k @4.6GHz on a 520W PSU despite everyone recommending at least 600W for my power hungry card.It's fine though because it's a good rebranded seasonic PSU capable of 40Amps over a 12V Rail.
0Have seen it before mate. The only "shit" is knowing in a year its no longer bleeding edge anymore. If it even is now even, for that matter.
0Not gonna talk shit about the build but who ever took those pictures and put them in that layout can go fuck himself.
Thats what my baby looked like before i changed the case.i7 4790GTX 970optimized for silence.
3Intel 4790KASUS Z97 Sabertooth Mark S16GB Corsair Dominator Platinum @ 2400ASUS RAIDR 240GB SSD2x 1TB SAMSUNG Evo 8502x 4TB Seagate SSHD2TB SEAGATE Black HHD2x EVGA GTX980Corsair AX860I PSU
8its good for people who have lots of money, and can keep upgrading it
2lmao
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
9These threads are dumb.Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
regarding night ly bread sibling

Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.Doge!
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good shiba.
recharge nicely, good shiba
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba :3
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Refill fully, decent Akida.
Rechargr nicely, good shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9sleep tight good dubs
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good spivey
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
You have been visited by the Great Moon Spivey of Great Psychic, if you reply to this post with "thank you Great Spivey" then you will attain your dream
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba
4Thank you Great Spivey
9Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
4thank you Great Spivey
Recharge nicely, good Shiba.
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
Recharge nicely, good Shiba
That kid in high school who ran to lunch like this.
9They got to be fast boys, I wish I was a fast boy.
laugh because you understand thismfw that person was me.
Holy shit I use to cringe at them so much.
That u op
8Why? Why run?Why turn into jetstream while you run?
9Had a friend named Alex who would do that while running from base to base in kickball, or running a mile. Funny thing was his arms would give out and he'd have to run like normal.
9feels
7Well I thought of myself as fast and cool, like when a kid is in elementary or middle and it is cool to turn in the attendance or just walk out of class.I needed something to seperate me from the other kids and that would be speed. I wanted to be the fastest and everyone complimented me on how fast I could run. Having my arms back would just increase my speed in a way so that I could soar like an eagle.
8
Knew a kid who would wear goggles from Digimon and do this.
9Woah, you guys had one too?
5i have the feeling every school had one man
Dude... But Goku made it look effective and cool though!
0
7lolllll i can picture that funny right now.... ah man... huff puff... my arms are getting..huff... tired...puff
9My school didn't have Fly Boys. Such a shame, they could be great overwatch.
5"I am a human eagle.jpg"i am raughing.. i am raughing out roud round eye
6Yeah he wasnt fat, he was hungry skeleton. He had a little dash but wouldnt last more than a minute. We'd call him lots of things but i called him "Minute Man"
1I would love to chase a weeaboo faggot while they're running like that. I'd grab their arms while keeping pace and grip tight and stop and pull. I'd break both arms and turn myself into some sort of human parachute.
9IT WAS ME!!I AM THE NIGGA THAT DID IT!
998not surprised you ended up on /b/. just a reminder to everyone else that is who /b/ is.
9There was a kid in school who ran down the hallways like that. He had ass burgers.
7Dem edges
9Wtf, there was this kid who was autistic who would run like that, i thought he was trying to be like Sonic or something.
0
9the kids who had dirtstachesthe kids who were either fat, or incedibly skinnythe kids whos hair was greasy and wildthe girls who wore sleeves with jack skelengtonthe girls who had multicolored hair, still crazy keptthe kids who were smothered by their obese womenthe kids who identified proudly as pansexual/furries/weaboosthe kids who would make weird "meep!"ing sounds in the hallthe girls who would walk around snuggling some anime plushthe kids who were completely autistic, and shy out of their autistic group
8So much edge I'm a circle.
0The one at my school had ass hotdogs
There were none because Japanese children's cartoons are not a thing people take seriously here.
3What grade?
Those kids the reason I never watched Anime
9we had a tard kid who ran to lunch like that every day with a bag of chips in his mouth and a bum arm.shit was cash
127The saddest part was when I was in the 5th gradebe meaverage kid, has friends of all gendersout in recess notice the girl that I like is playing with her friends; soccer or some shit like thatshe kicks the ball and her friend misses itthe ball is rolling to me"Oh shit .jpg"she is approximately lets say 20 yardsI need to impress the girl of my dreams with a good kick straight to herI try to kick the ball and the result was me missingI do not know if the ball moved forward because I was pretty sure I had angled my kick to precision.Everyone is now looking at meI need to redeem myselfThis means that I must get the ball to her with the most speed possible in order to impress her... fuck kicking the ball, I must soar like and eagle to her since I am confident in my running skillsArms back in the air. It's show-time mother fuckerseveryone is still looking at me as I bolt straight towards her at lightning fast speedI reach her and her friends"No big deal, that run was nothing.jpg"she says, "Why didn't you just kick it."I died a little that dayThat ended my running like a jet phasemfw she said that to me and I could still hear people laughing at me in the backroundI can tell a story about how I used to have a super incredible fast punching ability if anyone is lurking.
3Is this what you meant, with you being the parachute?
3Forgot picture
8I did it once or twice and then never again, because even I'm not that autisticand I'm a diagnosed aspie
2Id enjoy another chuckle
1Holy fuck the cringe
2This guy is that kid in the playground, running around on his own with his arms raised behind him, stopping at intervals to practice punching imaginary evil monsters only to carry on being completely oblivious to the big bad world he is living in.tfw he is the kid enjoying childhood as the rest of us dealt with divorces, deaths, alcoholocs, violence and abuse.
9I don't remember them running with their arms out.But there was this kid who ran every day to a pizza joint across the streetget out of computer classkid is anxiously waiting by the doorbell ringsdoor flies open at super speedskid turns a sharp corner to the right and flies down the stairsby the time you walk out of the classroom he is gonelook out windowsee him full on sprinting to pizza placeruns through traffic with zero fucks givenby the time you got there he was done eating and leavingcasually walks back to schoolHe also was notorious for putting pizza in his hoodie pockets and eating them in class.
1there was one kid in my highschool that wore an akatsuki cloak for like a week
8kids are fucking weird
this is that kid
mfw never had a single kid in school who did thatmfw no face
8Also, my high school was weirdly enough shared with a middle school.Walking to class was fun every day because it synced up with the middle school kids lunches.At least 10 of those fuckers would be full on sprinting, and it was always fun to try and block their paths.
9I did this when I was in third grade and finished playing Sonic Adventure 2
2I stopped reading after 'all genders'
I had a friend who did all kinds of cringy stuff back in middleschool, ran like this, made hand signs like in animes and even had a sharingan contact which he would use daily, really awkward, but he was my friend, tried to contact him like a year ago and found out he killed himself ;-;
5be me in ele-men-tarythe class was told move all of the desks to the back of the room, which is what we didthe class then proceeded to sit in a circle on the floor, criss cross apple saucethe teacher explains that the lesson today will just be an explanation of what you are good at"Oh shit", in an excited wayI am a pretty social kid that likes talking to others so this is no big dealPeople go on and talk about instruments and video games, but no not me I am special from the other kids and I must assert my dominance earlyThe spotlight is almost on me. My heart is racing of excitementthe girl that I like is also in this class, which gives me more motivation to impress herThe light is on me. Its go time.The teacher asks me to explain what my talentI say, "I have a super power and that is the ability to punch really fast."without hesitation or anyone asking for a demonstration I jump up and assume the ninja fighting position I saw in a Naruto episodeI made the angry serious face at my teacherI then proceeded letting out a bombardment of punches forwards, left and right, and behind me since I am the ultimate warrior.After like 5 seconds I get tired and assume the finished battle stance."The job is done.""I then look at the girl I like and do the flick on the bottom of my nose with my hands like in a thumbs up way, I dont know I saw it on NarutoI then sat down and the teacher said thank you for your demonstration.Feeling like the shit i said, "That's right."Mfw im in a fighting stanceeveryone was in awe of my abilities im pretty sure. some kids even had their jaw drop at my amazing abilities. well who could blame them right?I have more stories for anyone is who is interested.
3Damn bro.He's throwing shurikens with jeebus now.
9I fuckin had that one kid in my school too. He thought he was an ninja sanic.
8That kids name was John. That's right. Papa John.
I remember in like first grade I ran with my arms crossed behind my back because I saw that old bitch from yu yu hakashit do it on adult swim. Only did it once though
3Haha holy fuck more
3LOLDI had a friend like this, he played yugioh with me.
4HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHATake these tits
this threadFuck /b/ I'm awkward and a dweeb but at least I have co ordination. Where my outcast jockfags at? Played basketball and baseball in high school but wasn't part of the cool jock circle, just good at sports. Seriously I thought the kids doing that looked like fucking spastics
3elementarynarutoI want to say underage but I think I might just be that old
5Fuck, those googles. I knew this dude, he was a fucking loser. He was also a Tony Hawk fan and he wanted to be in a skater tv show. It was his dream. He ended working in a mexican restaurant. No highschool degree
be at meet and greet for a thingthey're having people do dumb competitions for free merchrock paper scissors, trivia, etc.they do a pushup contestmy friend, who was 21 at the time agreed to enter ithe goes up against two kids that are like 15 and 17they do like 10after friend does 20 the guy giving shit away says he can stop nownopefriend proceeds to do 50 more pushups while everybody stares in silencehe gets up and flexesgrabs his prize and walks back to us"that's how you impress the bitches anon"
8I feel you. My heart dropped when I saw that.mfw I did that too.mfw I was still the first one to get their trays
5That's what he gets for choosing Tony hawk over Christan hosoi
0I was thinking the same thing man...
0Lol right. I missed the naruto craze by a couple years. Dragonball z was the shit and that was around the beginning of Jr. High. As far as the anime shows that targeted young teens at that time nothing could surpass DBZ so I didn't really give anything else a chance.
9i was that kidfeels weird man
2Fuck off Reddit scum.
4Exact same shit at my school, just that he was wearing Naruto's hokage cloak thing or whatever. Every single fucking day after school.
5those goggles were based fuck you
0U wut m8
084be me in middle school. this is where shit gets realcompletely new person, I have outgrown the stage of "rapid punches at imaginary figures and soaring like an eagle with my hands behind my back"I am cool and understand the principles of lifeIn PE class doing kickball; my favorite gameI am the type of person who is a bit competitive at sportsI took sports very seriously and every kickball match was just another way for me to show everyone that I am more incredible then they are at this sport.PE teacher divides the Class into twoGirls and boys are mixed so teams are mixed equallyI see my team and think "Ok, I think they are good enough to be my teammates."I roll the ball to the kicker since only I am the one qualified with the most professional rolls that everyone likes. heck everyone complimented me for my perfect rolls towards themI play the game seriously and get some people out when the ball is kicked towards me or if I can catch it around the air.I am playing third baseA girl kicker is upshe kicks the ball pretty far away, the type that would be considered a home run, but our field was just open so I sprinted for it. I did not have my arms behind me, no I grew up from that, but I did sprint with all of my might since I am the ultimate athlete.I reach the ball and she reaches around halfway before 2nd baseI know I can make it if I run back to third baseI rush with all of my strength and meet her at third base.Cont. in different reply
0i never asked for this feel
2laughed
480the sad part is since I am trying so hard to reach the third base, I put my foot out more forward like a slide in a way.I dont want to compare and be rude but, she is the one who soared like an eagle that day.I swear life was in slow motion, she was slowly falling as I watchedshe hits the floor, which is not grass, but very hard dirty, rocks, and pebbles"Oh shit.jpg"I stare at her not knowing what to doI know that she is sitll alive but I just stareMy teamates, her teammates, and the teacher rushed over and picked her up and brought her to the nurses officeI was then blamed for the incident, which I did not like, but man, "She was a true eagle that day if I say so myself."I dont know what else to write about, I apologize if this is more sad than a kek.
8that kid sounds reallyc ool
Dylan fucking Evans. This all happened before ass burgers was understood, commonly known, and pandered to. Showed up in middle school, and to everyone's delight, he was hilarity incarnate. He spoke like, "ITS TAPE" and took himself very seriously. Would tell us about his cats, his favorite sanic character tails, and his "all time favorite band" linkin park. This kid would get made fun of by pretty much everybody. Even other kids that got picked on saw him as an easy target. Teachers did nothing, assuming he was just weird. Were all in high school now, freshmen, and by this time everybody understands that he clearly isn't all there. We're generally nice to him and act sincere when he speaks. Make him look like a hero in gym classes, cheer him on as he runs like sanic to lunch. Maybe we felt bad for the years of abuse, but we go on treating him like a normal weird kid. At some point in the year, he just disappears. Poof. Must've moved, but we didn't hear anything. Aside from his MySpace updating profile picture is tails, he falls of the earthmfw he moved away from possibly the only place that might treat him like a normal human being, only months after we started treating him like a normal human beingGod is cruel and hilarious
5mfw one kid in my college was still running like that
9That faggot who comes and shitposts every summer
9Omfg. That is so my youngest brother. I would kick his ass for being such a fag. So happy when I joined the army and cut off all ties to my family
3that is a great story id suck yur dick
STOP BRINGING BACK MEMORIES WHICH I HAVE PURPOSEFULLY REPRESSEDIS THIS WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO BE TRIGGERED? IS THIS WHAT THE TUMBLRS COMPLAIN ABOUT?
HOW ELSE AM I SUPPOSED TO BE A NINJA YOU FAGET
2yesi feel it toooh lord
I body checked a kid who did that. Crazy shit
When I was a 5th grader we used to go out to the local park that had a playground in it.We bring out all of the swords, ben10 watches,ninja headbands and we all run like that shiiieeet I miss those times
⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫⁫
6then what happened?
8dat filename
0amazing
9I used to run like that sometimes, way back in 3rd grade or so and usually just at home, I got over it in about a week or two
8Seconded, mine had one as well. Wonder who took on the mantle after he left.
0dont you hate when that happens?
2that's okay. doing things others see as weird can only stop those that let it stop them. there's more to you and you should focus on that instead of oppsie type moments. aso, dig up graves and sell the jewelery. use the bones to make furniture. you're doing great kid. just swell.
9
43You also replied to the wrong post, faggot. Get your shit together.
as i browse this thread and observe the posts i realize this is probably one of the lower layers toward the bottom of the barrel of human beings
4what
I used to try and run like this.....
6whoops
mfw when OP is bringing up fragments of a dark past
9I've run like this while racing people before, inside and outside of school.Best feeling whenever I won. I wouldn't take back a second of it.
1i did that in 7th grade and everyone liked it
9you have truly lived
6as i browse this thread and read your post I realize you are probably the type to accept social norms. read a book and recognize that all people are shitty asswipe monsters; not just the ones you dislike. Do you know what selfishness is? compare the concept to an ego. what's left? not much, right? choke on your vanity and do the world a favor
What I don't understand is how this retarded style of running became associated with ninjas or anime or whatever shit. Who thought it's a good idea to keep your arms behind you when you run? Why would anyone think this is anything other than awkward and unnecessary?
0Very true. I was enjoying my elementary years by being a complete derp and oblivious to everyone around me. I thought if I was having fun everyone was probably having fun too. Little did I know that one of my best friend was being molested at home. Once I got to University we started dating and she told me what happened in her childhood. Felt like complete shit for the next few months because I was so oblivious to what had happen to her when we were kids.
I never watched Naruto, thank the fucking lord.
1Implying that's not the most sexiest goof-ball way to get with the ladies when done in a short burstHey babe, I see you mirin' my gloots.
9manga genius masashi kishimoto sensei thats who fuck you
1the first episode was really goodall downhill after that
Hahaha! I was that guy.My inspiration was Samurai X.
2rurouni kenshin was so goooodddd
1some guy wore a Naruto headband on top of a fedoradailypair of goggles hanging from his neckscarfdailyas a university student
6To be fair, this is /b/, summerfriend.
2I cringed at the last line.
2lmoa
2Fucking wooow
9That's cute. You started dating someone you knew since elementary, that's like some Nicholas Sparks shit. Also, kids are dumb, no one expects you to not have been a dumb kid.
7Laughing my oranges away
8haha!
9i did this in front of the whole high school at a rally because a friend dared me to do it so i didlater found a little stick figure doodle of me in this running position left behind on the bleachersi knew it was me because i had a afro and the stick figure had a huge afroand that was the finest moment of my life.i wish i always gave so little of a fuck as i did at that time in my life
, 
What's all this, then?
2looks legit
Bullshit
Well, I mean, I DO like Asian Women.....
2got me an asian waifu born and raised in my country. So she understands what she has to cook for me after I pulled out.
That is a crappy photoshop
2But the ones raised in their own country are more submissive?Eh, if she doesn't speak English, just show her a picture. She'll figure it out.
2Available Asian womanPicture of Ellie Tran Ha, well known Viet model.1This guy's knocked it on the head.
6I've never been to an asian country everbut muh animo ses grils r submissiveYellow fever retard/10
6yeah that's right...sometimes I wish she would be more submissive. only in bed she's submissive as hell. she has clearly her own will...dat aint gudd!
5ITT: virgins who have never dated / married a native or FOB Asian chick.I've done both. It's not submission. It's manipulation. Enjoy it, beat it, or suffer it - but know, it is not submission. The girls don't lose. They get what they want.
2Thanks to this guy, here's the original.Though general google image search = MY DICK IS DIAMONDS
5Not all Asian countries are equal, ya know.
2Welcome.So mirroring fools google image search? I presume you tried that first?
2my asian gf been with my like 7 years, suddenly she got real bossy and shit. i had to get real aggressive with her and remind her who the man is. she started out so submissive too tho... if she wacks me i always wack her back now and if she says shes going to leave i tell her to leave. she always comes around and chills after that. still worth it, better then a white bitch, white bitch would have left me for a nigger by now.
4They can be a challenge eh? But yes, always better than a white bitch.
7nice! u done everything damn right, anon. let us watching our friends white wifes becoming old hamplanets!2my girl is viet, too. but not dem boobs! nice m8
7And spoil the illusion?
443youre just as bad as white women who are nigger loversbeta bitch bois
0fat white nigger loving white pig woman has been detected.
Dated Asian bitch for a year. Almost married until one day we were fooling around and she said " your better than any black man I've ever been with". Bitch was dumped very shortly after that.
4yeah a lot!my lil viet thing didn't gain literaly not a pound in the years! never had that with the white beasts. 0u jelly? jelly that whe can slam super tight little girls looking like 15 until their 30s and jelly that your ex got this fat BBC in her ass and not you?
going to lose virginity tomorrowany tips /b/? already shaved and vigorously washed cock

Fore. Play.
Have fun mate. Post results.
the girl will probably think it's weird that you shaved your junk.
0yeah man that shits gonna start itching real bad real soon
3already down4already discussed it
0Yeah, stop fucking posting animu
Make sure she is fully aware of everything. First girl I was with was apparently never taught that the first time can hurt. That was a very bad day.
9i'm sure she knows that
8on an anime imageboard
3the fact that you discussed losing your virginity is weird.
2no, she told me that she prefers guys who were shaven
Is it your girlfriend you're losing your virginity to or is it some slut from the club?
Lots of foreplay lots of lube and if your a repeater you might want to work one out before you get started. If not don't bother cumming too quickly can be better sometimes then not cumming at all.
0former5got it
Masturbate the night before.Use a flat wide tongue first, then flick the bean.
I remember my first time it took around 2 minutes.Good luck /b/ro
9already havei'm just worried my volume is going to be off
6thanks
just know when it happens youll bleed a lot from your cock
Circumcised?
7This.
0Post yui.
8y-yes2so fucking close
how old are you?
9i don't want to say
Good luck and have fun, best regardsAnon.
0thanks
0lol loser
0Cmon anonI'm 14
8That's a good point OP eat more red meats and maybe cum to add more ammo in your clipI got a nice little gun shed if you wanna
1stop buriat
1Paedophile
6yesi am actually over the average age at which people lose their virginity and totally not under 18yes, yes yes
13 decides what I write/draw on my dick
draw a dick
draw a dick on your knob
7Just so you know, if I was there right now I'd suck the fuck out of that :3
7jam that marker down your pee hole
6Gee thanks :3
draw a dick op
I want to believe
7Shameless self bump
6no homo
shrek
al sharpton
A dick
jesse jackson
Say what now
draw billy mays here and caption with clever item for 3 easy payments of 19.99
Dots all over the tip
draw a pussy on your dick and lick it faggot
7I feel like that might be a lot of work
turn penis into hellraiser with sewing needles
Scribble all over your shaft
Draw a dick
Rolling for pikachu
7620692684roilling to make op work for the first time in his life
2this
turn dick into super saiyan 3
7color your entire dick black
0den veinsyummy
trips to turn this into a what shape do i carve my dick into thread
draw Hitler on your balls with his arm running up the underside of your cock, so when you get a boner you heil Hitler
MOAR OF THIS BEAUTIFUL DICK
Write tate abel. Winrar get
1holy trips batman
1Holy fuck. It's even 3111
A swastika!
I'm thinking you won't be able to fit more than 1 or 2 letters..
1roll
2harsh maine
1carve into entire cast of friends
Man love
6re-roll for this
1reroll
turn penis into tony montana
draw a peanuts comic strip
78For your viewing pleasure
tyranosaurus rex
power ranger
write name and mailing address
7Write: Sheyla
Draw veins all over your dick
wendy
tom cruise wuz here
back in 5 minutes
1Roll
9/11
What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? I’ll have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and I’ve been involved in secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am trained in gorilla warfare and I’m the top sniper in the entire US armed forces. You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my words. You think you can get away with saying shit to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my network of spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. You’re fucking dead, kid. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and that’s just with my bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat, but I have access to the entire arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what unholy retribution your little “clever” comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your tongue. You didn’t, and now you’re paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit all over you and you will drown in it. You’re fucking dead, kiddo.
4Write in your fucking dick this name 2, is for an important porpuse
1use sharpie plz
Draw a dick
draw a dick faggot
6
write "your name" win 100s of dollars in bets at local bar
2That was a sigh of relief
tiger print
A dick, then show your butt.
6Dick a draw
"Dumb fuck"
your mothers name
4Roll
Draw a smiley face with an exacto knife
4got eeeeeem
Draw a sudoku board.
0reroll
, 
So long story short one of my friends is gonna try speedballing for the first time tonight. We usually smoke weed all the time and dabbled with psychedelics, but she met some people recently who introduced her into coke, molly, and all that other shit, and tonight she told me she's gonna try speedballing for the first time. I'm not surprised since she would always say she's always wanted to try heroin I just wanna know how screwed is she? Also some advice, personal experience, and opinions on speedballing, or a way that I can convince this bitch to just lay off those drugs and stick to the natural or less serious stuff. Any advice on helping her during her come down too would be cool cause I ain't trying to babysit either. If you're wondering shes gonna snort coke and heroin.
, 
, 
would you?
6Nudes?
6Fo shounless trap
6
4Please post moar!
/b/ I think my dog killed a cat, srs. I was walking her earlier and some cat started stalking us and hissing at my dog, the cat then tried to jump on my dog and my dog literally man handeled the thing for a good 5 seconds until I was finally able to get her to stop, the cat then limped away. There was a puddle of blood on the ground and my dogs teeth were completely covered in blood. What should I do? Is some little grill gonna wake up tomorrow to find her cats mangled body on the front step. dog looks like pic related but a bit bigger. about 78lbs
Not even doom music
1u wot m8?
You need to control your fuckin dog man. Also hope it was feral.
4the cat attacked her. Like I said the cat was following us for about a block.
3
3kek. how does this correlate?
4Fag cat lover detected.Stay on your apartment schizo
Fuck that cat, bitch had it coming. Keep your dog on a leash though, seems like it has the taste for pussy.
5Who cares, was just a cat, at least the cat didn't hurt your dog.People should have their cats enclosed just like people have dogs enclosed.
cat shouldn't be outside, periodnot safe for them and they kill too many songbirdssounds like it might have been mortally wounded but who knows? cats can be surprisingly toughhence the whole '9 lives' thing
class="quote"I came so hard
, 
How many minutes would it take to fall through a hole from one end of the earth to the other?A : 35 minutesB : 38 minutesC : 40 minutesD : 44 minutesGive your answer.I reveal the correct one soon.
Hay faggot.Please notice: gravity is a bitch. You won´t fall to the other end.You will be a pendulum which swings forth and back.Eventually you will some day stop at the center of the earth and meet hollow earth
Harmonic motion n'guh
6This is a hypothetical.So gravity stays at normal level whole way.In real life yes you would probably go back and forth I think and then stop in the middle.
6Who is hollow earth?
Well, you would freeze to death. Sunlight can't reach the center of the Earth to warm it up.
Terminal Velocity of a Human: ~120 mphDiameter of earth: 7918 milesAround 66, 67 minutes...assuming it doesn't take longer than one minute for a human to reach terminal velocity.

8You are falling through a tube made of pure diamond.Diamond reflects heat well so even near the core you won't burn to death.
9That wasn't one of the options.Wrong.
6Kind of wrong but I feel a need a sketch to illustrate.
0Nice trips.Please make a sketch.
9I said minutes, but meant hours. Because I'm sleepy and the original answers were given in minutes. I feel dumb now.66 hours. Give or take.
0That is very incorrect.
2not enuff diamonds m8
Also. B.
6implying you wouldn't be crushed by the gravity
2But the diamond would freeze, and once that happens it would crack easily.
6Diamonds can be made in machines.2Correct.
0A human can't fall faster than 120 mph though. Don't tell me there's not going to be any AIR in our hole through the center of the earth.
0Oh god, my sketch is failing.I'm letting the trips down.I was far more confident before I started
3Why would it freeze?The core of the earth is not cold.
6wrong
4When you fall to the other side, you'd land upside down and you might break your neck.
464 hours
5see 8
4That's not an implication, it's not even correct.That's not how gravity works.
8Chinese people are waiting to catch you in a net.7Other forces not related to sunlight heat the core.Why do you think volcanoes exist.
7He's not wrong at all, unless it's in a vacuum, which wasn't specified.
4crushed by the gravitycrushedall of the Earth's mass is concentrated at one point at its center
9You'd actually be weightless at the center of the earth.Equal gravity on all sides pulling at you.
1Volcanoes are made out of baking soda dumbass
4And where does baking soda come from?
6That was my point, and with momentum, carried through to the opposite surface.But air resistance will slow you on the way out, so you will not reach the same height that you fell from, unless in a vacuum.
, 
, 
Tell me her name and I share all
4Becky
7Nope
General stoner thread!
had a few lollipops and gonna smoke some here in a bit. Got some amber waves, I think it's a sativa.
Sup. Related, my bong. not fancy or see-through, but it's got a lovely design on it.
How do you make a high quality webm under 3mb?
, 
I want to walk around town with a sock or something in my thin pants to see how many chicks stare at my package. What's the best thing to use to make the bulge look huge and noticeable. Btw, I have a big dick but not big enough to pop through the pants/sweats.
a fat cock
1/thread
razor blades have always done the trick for me
7a dozen lapdog xl condoms
Buy a Dildo and stuff it in there. You can even fuck yourself in the ads afterwards with it you fucking faggot.
7Yea just stuff it with socks.
if it's not big enough to pop through the pants and sweats then you don't have a big dick 6/10 for making me sit up and type that
rate my lyrics? ive been working on a horrorcore song recently and id like to ask you /b/ros what you think of it, here it isyo, i be smacking bad girl cuz im a muthafucka bad boy nigga im gone cut yo mama legs off and put em in yo mouth trigga finga on my skrilla nilla cuz im a born killa billa, is what i gone call you after i put you in my sex dungeon cuz im a sick ass nigga, a dope ass nigga, whatchu gonna do raichu when you cold with dew niggathats all i have so far, 0/10? pic unrelated
, 
Asked this girl from work if she wanted to chill. She's fine by me. What should I say
5movies, netflix w.e
5Netflix and chill
have you had an HIV test?
5Netflix Pizza & beer
Lol sorry can i have nudez sorry if i sound creepy lol sorry lol sorry nudes please lol sorry
Fuck
2change it to "Can i haz nudez" so it'll be more endearing
Well, I have a knife and a penis and one is going inside you.
Killing spree in Walmart? Or a high school, whatever's cool with you
878One of these 3 OP, or at least give us a get.
5
, 
, 
why isnt there a facebook sluts you wanna fuck thread?
1
6
0
0
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
, 
people who clutter their desktopspeople who put stickers on their laptopspeople who have point and shoot pictures as their backgrounds that aren't their kidspeople who have cars, teams or models as their backgroundspeople who remove all protective laminant on devicespeople who wear HEADphones anywhere but their battlestationspeople who have actual music as ringtonespeople who still don't know how to use mac because PCMASTERRACELOLpeople who have embellished awkward phone cases that serve no protective purposepeople who still have pussysl4yer69@hotmail.com as their emailspeople who don't have their emails sorted and tagged appropriatelypeople who do not wait for their phones or devices to charge to 100% before using them.ITT your /g/ pet peeves.
, 
, 
For your nostalgia This sounds so good :' 
I AM A GAYLORD
Well /b/ , today is the day I finally rid myself of this site and all of its horror once and for all. I used to be just like you , hated the world and everyone in it, including myself. I used to come here to be cynical, irate and at times downright psychopathic anonymously and without repercussion. Why you might ask? Why do we do these things?Is it because we are trying to be edgy?Are we trying to be cool in some type of pathetic way?The truth is we are damaged people, whether that be emotionally physically or both, we are pieces of a broken man scattered.We are not beyond repair though my friends, and with that I pose to you a question. Will you pick up the pieces and carry on with your life with a longing for happiness and moral fibre? Or will you simply be another shitlord endlessly posting hate from your parents basement or shit tier apartment building with tons of dishes and shit all over your desk?goodbye /b/ it has been swell but I now walk the path of the righteous man.
niggers
0a man of few words, profound nonetheless , niggers indeed friend.
0The jews did this
0do a flip
1just as they did 9/11 , as anyone who understands the properties of steel and jet fuel would know
0I will, I will flip for all those stuck here unable to do a flip because of their enormous gelatinous mass they have acquired sifting through the piles of shit that make up this site.
8checked and checked
Hey! Cheer up. It's only horrible because people suck. Take some people with you
why stop faggot?
they gave him bad dick rates so he got mad.
See you tomorrow
3I need no cheering up friend you see I have finally been able to accept myself and stop beating my dick 5 times a day  inb4 5 times fucking casual  to increasingly weirder and weirder pron and thus am not completely full to the brim with blind rage.There is more to life than fucked up pornography, beating your dick senseless and bullying people to the point of suicide and i see that now.
2Lol can't say I've ever posted my dick on here, ive been here since about 05 and have literally lurked ever since, this is probably my 4th or 5th thread in 9 years.
1There's so much more to life dude I'm telling you I know its fuckin awesome but there is so much more to life no matter what your situation is.
2I need to reiterate how hard I laughed at this fucking 10/10 post here this is what makes this place so awesome most people are so witty and intelligent but at the price of being a cynical piece of shit.
8Same and until one of my more tech savvy ex's post one it will never be.
3well men are usually pretty good with computers so id say its only a matter of time
anyway one last intensely perverted and prolonged masturbation session and its bon voyage, its been a good one boys even though my 1 thread in 5 years was a total fuckin flop.Thats why i dont make these fucking things i swear to god 5 threads in 10 years and no one fucking replies to the shit , probably because its a stupid thread but whatever fuck you peace out
0See you tomorrow :
8truekek
28thats just motivation boys next time i feel like getting on here ill just remember the 2 faggots who thought they were smart in that thread i made then i wont do it
0See yah tommoroe
A MAN REDEEMED I SAY A MAN REDEEMEDalso i came so i am definitely gettin the fuck out of here now goodbye all you faggots
6not doin it faggot like i already said you and those other 2 faggots who already said the same thing is just fuel for me to never come back
Well, dudes, Greece had a proposal to fix its debt problem and its economy and its productivity and its corruption etc etc, and that proposal was 47 pages.Now, they've cut it down to 3 pages!In this thread, we post what we think is in those 3 pages.
Legalize weed and slavery.
5Olive oil
wear more hats
, 
, 
spooky skeleton thread
im horny help pls
trying to find the gifs that were in this video pls help 
2CIA pls go
plz
8n-no
8Get out of here, stalker
4
5no
1Post chalice dungeons pls
, 
, 
guys someone told me this is the next new meme XD
OMG, /b/! You won't believe what I just did. Count to 5 and I'll tell you! I swear, it's unbelievable!
5
1
01, 2, 3, 4, OPisafagFuck! I just can't get it right!
1
2
3
3
1
1
5
2
03
7
4
04
05
3
1
6checked
op just got his first boner
2
2
1
Fuck
3
One
6Triiiipppssss
1Two
3One
One
3
4
72
1
Half
82
63
04
65
04
People, I can't tell from the real person oh counting down....
4REEEEEEEEEEEE
Counts
I'm out
1
2
3
4
5
5
5
95386Time to tell us, OP.
95386winrar faggot OP
95386
95386Holy.....
8
9018Alright, /b/. You win. The amazing thing I did tonight is make a whole bunch of idiots try to count to 5 on /b/.
0So what did you do OP
0
0cool
mfw i made every post 1-5
0you is a special kind of fag, op
0That's amazing! How did you do it?
1
, 
, 
, 
So /b/ not sure if this is gay as fuck or what but I just made a social experiment with some pretty interesting side results.I wanted to see how many messages would a woman at a dating site okcupid for the experiment receive and how fast would the guys react and how fast it would take them to make sexual initiatives.Heres what I found:Within 1 minute of registering, I already had 2 messages. As a nice looking guy fake profile, I didnt got a single one in the course of a monthIn 10 minutes I already had 10.Now, I had to play along, the pics were casual pics of a 7-8 girl from fb I made sure she was from a different continent altogether so that in the off chance that one of the guys in the site was a stalker or some shit, he'd never cross paths with the real girlmost of the guys were really polite, but I realized that we got to fucking step up on our conversation game because every single conversation started the same way "i looked at your profile snd you looked so interesting so i decided to talk to you.I was even messaged by guys who were like 30-35 the profile was of a 21 years old girl and to these guys I honestly told them thst I wasnt interested but that they were all going to make it.in the end only 2 out of 15guys escalated the conversation to a sexual one.And this is where the funny side effect came up:I saw things from the eyes of a woman.Holy shit its fucking lame when guys talk like that and its honestly annoying to see them pushing so hard for a date when you make it so clear that youre not interested in them..really dont do thst, if a girl says she doesnt got time till a certsin week, dont ask her "maybe your free this thursday? Come on it will only be a while!"or shit like that.Pic unrelated
One of the guys who escalated eventually asked me for a sexual encounter. I told him that I was in a lesbian phase in hopes of making him abort the mission, but it only made him more persistent, saying how much he loved lesbians.guys, dont do that, it honestly makes a woman feel uncomfortable, they do not enjoy it, tjey dont rub their clits as you teñl them your most likely false sexual exploits.More knowledge to come tomorrow
, 
, 
I once saw /b/ give the url to a site like tiny chat but not.Whats the site /b/?in return here is a site that lets you find new music and dl it for free yo.youtube-2-mp3.org
9asking /b/ for something other than glorious pepe 2015
yeah but i gave ya a horse
I'm bored /b/.Ask a Mexican almost anything.Avoid politics stuff, I know nothing about that because I don't care and I don't even get paid by my country's government
, 
, 
Who is the clueless party, business people paying more than they need to, or retards that think the wage gap is actually a thing?
Meh, retards who don't get what the wage gap is. It's the average difference between men’s and women’s hourly earnings.Those differences exists due to a variety of causes, such as discrimination in hiring, differences in education choices, differences in salary negotiations, differences in the types of positions held by men and women, differences in the pay of jobs men typically go into as opposed to women especially highly paid high risk jobs, differences in amount of work experience, and breaks in employment.No one says that for a single specific job with certain requirements you can just pay woman less. Retards.
1Sooo. Yes. People do actually say that.are things people actually believe.
1The point is, they DO think that the wage gap is women being paid less to do the same job.
1Women are vastly overrepresented in areas like retail, childcare and hospitality.Men are over represented in areas like business and mining.Many women cease employment to care for children. Few men do.Wage gap my ass - we are just drawn to different areas.
1Nope, a lot of people think that the pay gap means that women get directly paid less for the same job than a man would.You have way too much confidence in people.
its the Jews that are trying to destroy the family unit by upsetting woman and using their emotions to cause a gender war.
6609Let me rephrase that, no one with half a brain or who has a basic education in statistics and knows how to look at studies or actually takes the time to look at them, says that woman get payed less for the same job in this direct way. People who think otherwise are just retards.
, 
After 3 hours of walking and shit finally I've got here, so /b/ should I jump ?
0yes
She will show tits, ban does not work, demand tits

, 
, 
Dying slowly in a lecture at Copenhagen Business School.66 decides wat do.The lecture ends in 4 hours.
Shit on professors desk.
8Steal the teachers cup/drink
Pay attention, study hard and graduate.
Masturbate
yell out 'I am a privileged white-boy and my dad bought me everything including mu future job - I am the literal cancer of the world'
8As a straight, white, humankin cis-male, this triggered me.
8That's hilarious. I would absolutely do that and document via .webm
8yea, but the OP faggot will never do this - nor will he do anything this thread suggests.Rich spoiled fucktards only do what they father order them under the threat of disowning them. I teach young faggots like OP and they are literally the cancer of the future world
8pay attention so you arent a failure like the rest of your countrymen
8get off 4chan and pay attention shithead
6Wait and see loser.
8Why on earth do they have such a long lecture?We do 50-80 minutes usually in my program, and that's a lot to take in.
Throw your playlunch at the lecturer.
Pull out dick and smack it in the face of the one next to you
4Because prof. is an unambitious fucktard who keeps cancelling the original lectures, so we have to compress it all into one huge torture-session on the last day before the exam.
Seed your torrents.
9There's not sitting anyone next to me. I'm a lonely loser. Surprised? I'm on /b/ during class.
8shut up, retarded young man. learn to follow orders, something your disinterested parents never taught you
jack off until you finish
Sneak and tie the girls two shoes together
2is it one person talking for all 4 hours?
8
1yes.
8Fuck, just pull it out anyway and yell "I'm the king of trips"
2thats shitty
slap your teacher and an hero all live stream. post link.
3You want me to an hero in class? If so, how?
What is your favorite anime?Does it suck? Admit it. It sucks, doesn't it?
, 
I broke with my bf, cheer me up
boobs
Hi femanon kun.
no
Nah
Give me your kik I will cheer you up
1Tits when?
1tits or gtfo
1Show us that sweet little puss!
1Here in my garage just bought this new Lamborghini here, it's fun to drive up here in the Hollywood hills. But you know what I like a lot more than materialistic things?Knowledge. In fact, I'm alot more proud of these 7 new bookshelves that I had to get installed to hold 2000 new books that I bought. Its like the billionaire Warren Buffett says "the more you learn, the more you earn".Now maybe you've seen my Tedx talk where I talk about how I read a book a day, you know I read a book day not to show off, again it's about the knowledge.In fact the real reason I keep this Lamborghini here is that it's a reminder, a reminder that dreams are still possible because it wasn't that long ago that I was in a little town in a little town across the country sleeping on a couch in a mobile home with only $47 in my bank account. I didn't have a college degree, I had no opportunities. But you know what? something happened that changed my life, I bumped into a mentor and another mentor and a few more mentors. I found 5 mentors and they showed me what they did to become multi-millionaires.Again, its not just about money, its about the good life, health, wealth, love and happiness. And so i record a little video it's actually on my website, you can click here on this video and it will take you to my website where i share 3 things that they taught me. 3 things that you can implement today no matter where you are. Now this isn't a get rich quick scheme. You know, if they say things sound too good to be true, they are too good to be true. I'm not promising you that tomorrow you're going to be able to go out and buy a Lamborghini, but what I am telling you is that it can happen faster than you think if you know the proven steps.
sorry love, need pics of your tits, asshole and feet first
you have my attention
1How bad a fuck was he?
I doubt it. Well, I'd believe it more if OP was a boy, too.If you're being legit, this wasn't a good place to come.Still, I'm sorry for your loss. My belief is that you only lose things in your life to make room for new ones. Better or worse? There's no telling. That's the inevitable, unavoidable luck of the draw in life.
2kek
Snapchat: joshjawshjoosh
1
1break up with bfstart posting slutty pics on 4chanyou're doing it right, typical cunt. the next logical step is to bang random dudes that buy you drinks or give you drugs, then complain that men are assholes.
37 of them
1yeah this isn't the place to go if you want to be cheered up hun
1Fuck off cumdumpster, if you broke up with him it's your own fault.
EFW eh? Talk to him. Or maybe I should continue
Sorry to hear that; what was the reason for the breakup?
7I've got some drinks and drugs if you are DTF OP
1I just got broken up with by some basic bitch like you
1There's always money in the banana stand
2
87 of what?
1I just kind of broke up with my kind of gf, so I'm ok with this.
Probably not the best place to cheer you up.Don't know, just get out and fuck someone like we do. It doesn't work, but it's better than nothing.
7ur voice is sexy. i'd put muh dick in ya. feel better now?
1Don't worry OP! Keep your chin up, you're a pretty swell gal and you can bet that's the darn truth!
1oh please, you are just fine. a slut like you can get any insecure man to love you.
5What the fuck is the point of this?
This face of chadman377
NUDES
1I'd cheat on you too. Fuck off. Check'em
1wanna suck on my moist baby cock?
90Impressive
9Cheked em m80 boe b80
YOU KNOW THE RULES TITS OR GTFO
Post em plz?
1Nila
6666!
My boobs
6You must be a pure bread sand nigger with those iron clad unclippable pubes and that itty bitty poor excuse of a cock still in its 3rd world sheath
6Holly satanic trips
op come back
1dox hershe's got a picture of her vagoo with a sign and a picture of her face /w voice /w WoW character name on Stream^ work with this^ dox her and make her give up nudes
9Timestamp please, and turn on a lamp.
9Hi Nila
19What's it like knowing you can walk down the road and get a new boyfriend in less than 10 minutes?
9and the fuckin timestamp...
9whar about face?
9
9make a kik and post it
6FUCK
9How lick-able is your butthole.
1
1with what?
I got something to cheer you up if you post your lips, face lips
5Nope, I'm white. Just tanned. Sorry I havnt shaced in a bit, they are getting long. Plus they are thick as fuck. But just look at those un touched, sensetive cock glands baby, dont you just wanna lick it?
You all being trolled. Enjoy your bait
4pretty much this.
1prove it
keep posting op you're hot. snatch looks nice show from behind
67 bads
3Prove you're not a raging faggot cock sucker
3prove itEverything is bait. You are bait, I'm bait, we are all bait. And summerfags.
4what about getting rape and murder
also how old are you OP?
8
Why'd you break up with him if it'd make you so miserable?
1Where u from? Ausfag here btw
5Almost 17
My butt
9Give me kik I will show you my cock to cheer you up
4dick?
4Go on.
4timestamps, OP
4will you masturbate for us
3Wasted dubs being edgy... On a pasta...being this new
4Ehhhh. Nutin to see here. 0/10
9i vape ;-
7Wrong answer
4show us your asshole and post your kik so we can cheer you up already
4Look like a paint masterpiece
4look at my new mod :-
7Retard Confirmed
show us the juice after you dildo your pussy to an orgasm
7Is that a phaser
4
4dox herGo fuck yourself, you giant newfag
Looks like he made the right choice.Sluts arent good GF material yet alone wife material
1You're a slut
4don't be a jealous son
5are you 16 dumbass? take a seat, young'n. breaking up with someone can suck. sometimes its something you have to do even though a part of you doesnt want to.
4can you put googly eyes on that and wiggle it a little?
0yet alonechrist is everyone here retarded?summertimeoh right
8Don't try so hard.
9ffs op post your /snapchat whatever
1newfags that didn't know about chan girls, alway want to do this
6
0
8Newfag
Snapchat me anon. I know your hurtinggummibearzz
4post kik op
8Nobody wants to touch that pathetic excuse for a cock.UncutHuge pubes bigger than cockUncutFucking tinyI bet you're a virgin.
9this
1Bout time you shove that up your ass huh
4class="quote"someone dox herimplying that's her and it isn't spam
8rolling for feet
1dat navel is sexy as hell.
8
9the fuck. this is for 2
3HAHAHAHAWhether you're trolling or not, that's a good one.Never seen a comment this oblivious
3I'm not a virgin and im definitely a grower not a shower.just admit you want it in your mouth baby cakes ; dont worry, im clean
6Yep. All 3 should fit. Post pics afterwards
1yea no shit ur not a "shower" fag we're all human beings
Stupid bitch.
9Yeah i'm going to need a close up shot of that adorable navel of yours OP.
3Come shower with me hun, i'll give you a ncie back massage to ease your stress.I'll take care of you boo
8nigga r u really mirin a belly button
3not that guy but i also find navels sexy
1I find guys in the navy sexy too
3Navels are sexy as fuck, tits are nice, pussy's are fun, but navels are special.
1hmm interesting
op you're dumb, post a dummy kik if you really want people to cheer you up and shit.
3navelfag here
7revine
981469the crowd has spoken OP, navel closeups when ever you please.
Hey yall got anymore of them dank memes?
Whilst you wait on OP delivering the goods, here is my friend currently making vids showing me how she checks her tempreture kek
1that looks like a scar above your penismove the timedate lower to show clit, or show tits or, you can get the fuck out
9 no good, no timestamp
4 now your getting fresh, no timestamp and isn't boobs or cunt, so no good
9 /thread
9
come one OP spread that navel and let us have a look.
1that's all well and nice but it's no navel.
1pussies are for casuals, navels are where it's at.
1Mmm I bet it smells like pee. I want a girl to rub her pee stenched hole on my nose and lips.
25
1 still no timestamp you are one dense motherfucker get the fuck out or not. nothing here worth coming back to look at
9get a gf and ask her, simple.
0bruh
1 i want to lick from your clit to your belly button
4i want to make a cum puddle right at the top of your butt cleavage
8Fuck off normie
4well what's your plan?look at women from afar and breath heavily when they walk by?
You wake upSee thisWat do?
karate chop, make me breakfast.
6Groggily roll over. Turn up brightness on screen. Close thread. Open another thread on /s/ that hopefully contains nicer pussies.
tell her to fuck off with that mud face
Ask y u got a sex change faggot
9/thread
6Wake up again and realise I was dreaming in a dream
6Ask for sweet and sour sauce
6Fuck her ass
6Rape
/b/ this girl lost a bet to me and now I get to have her wear four outfits, they can be slutty but need to be legal for public, best four suggestions will have pics posted at a later date
Post her tits !!!
What level are you in Destiny?
6It's the sword of Crota mission which is on the moon... So probably like level 10 lol.
This is the cringiest shit I've ever seen
2Couldn't just be farmimg? Fucking noob.
Nigga you should be 34 by now goddamn
Put her in work out clothes and send her to the gym.
72015 still being a cringefagsaying cringefag
1farming? Farming what? Go kill shit in patrol. Way faster.
0fucking butterface/10
0Patrol. LOL
0A tiny Wicked Weasel bikini
, 
Here in my thread just bought this new Lamborghini here, it's fun to drive up here in the /b/ hills. But you know what I like a lot more than materialistic things?Porn. In fact, I'm alot more proud of these 7 new VPNS that I had to get installed to get on all these dodgy porn sites I found. Its like the billionaire Warren Buffett says "the more you learn, the newer the fag you are".Now maybe you've seen my Threads where I talk about how I kill a Jew a day, you know I kill a Jew a day not to show off, again it's about the fun.In fact the real reason I keep this Thread here is that it's a reminder, a reminder that Oldfags are still possible because it wasn't that long ago that in a little website across the internet posting on a wall on a mobile phonw with only 453 friends on my list . I didn't have a clue about 4chan, I had no memes. But you know what? something happened that changed my life, I bumped into a old fag and another old fag and a few more old fags. I found 5 old fags and they showed me what they did to become good @ interwebs.Again, its not just about memes, its about the good fags, cunts, Sluts, tits and porn. And so i record a little video it's actually on my website, you can click here on this thread and it will take you to nothing where i share 3 things that they taught me. 3 things that you can implement today no matter where you are. Now this isn't a get rich quick scheme. You know, if they say things sound too good to be true, they are too good to be true. I'm not promising you that tomorrow you're going to be able to go out and be an oldfag, but what I am telling you is that it can happen faster than you think if you know the proven steps.
Ok, I'll span this fucking thing one last time, while it last, I'll post some random pics..also check¨*
a fuck, so close!!!
Do I have to spam with porn to get attention?
fucking internet
ther you go kid
'nother one
Get in here OP.
Bump
1
That cunts ass is huge and disgusting, and you faggots are just fat bitch enablers. Hate you all.
, 
Miley thread.Anything recent?Anything decent?
3
Anything for sale?Anything in the mail?
2
What is /b/ up to this fine night. Pic related I know tin foil is fucked but my piece is at home
Just use an fruit.
You couldn't make a safer bong or pipe? Fuck man.
aluminum causes alzheimers, you tard.
7I am fruitless
Only one awake, can't sleep because of this dude's obnoxious snoring, freezing my ass off at some stranger's house while my fiancé sleeps on me. This is why I don't leave the house.
6Aluminum oxide is linked to Alzheimer's. First you have to heat the aluminum enough to oxidize and combust it. It's unlikely that you'll get THAT much more aluminum oxide in you than if you were eating something that had been in tin foil.
7You're such a fucking a pathetic loser.
4Uh huh
6I dont think hes going to heat the aluminum enough for it to combust
, 
, 
, 
/b/ what do I do?I think I'm going to kill myself.. I've been drinking and it's all that's filled my head..
Go to tumblr, no one cares, sorry :/
4/thread
4at least you're sorry
Shots! Shots! Shots! Everybody!
Listening to mad world by gary jules.... not a good idea...
I work from 5:30pm to 2am 5 days a week. I go to work at 4:10pm, I sit in the canteen from 2am to 4am, I get home 5:30am.Get to sleep 9am.Wake up 3pm.I want to die.
get a girlfriend or go to Orlando or just smoke weed or something entertain yourself that's the problem you have to entertain yourself no matter what
3My problem is that I've lost the will yo see another day
3Bad advise.Don't think getting a girlfriend will fix your personal problems. Don't weed if you're depressed.
Go make yourself and life better rather than posting your stupid fucking sob story on the internet.
6I don't want to drag the people I care about into my pit.
8For me there is no way out I'm trapped.
I've been reading suicide prevention websites but they just make things hurt more... I'm going on a long road trip tomorrow but I don't think I will mreturn
9stop drinking and go to bed OP, you have depression and the drink will just make it worse.talk to your dr, get some st john's wort, start exercising and start meditating. if you sit in the canteen for 2 hours every night take up reading books, i recommend " chris ryan : the kremlin device ", very good read.
4the kremlin devicethank you
2welcome mate, after that go for " chris ryan : the hit list " i finished it yesterday, 4th time ive read the book. if you like them download everything by chris ryan & andy mcnab, also " sniper one, by sgt dan mils " fucking awesome non fiction, its telling the guys story of fighting in afganistan. if i could id give you my copies.
9What r the reasons for your suicidal thoughts? Extreme stress or depression or maybe both?Not everyone who kills themselves is depressed you know, a lot can be solved through simple methods.
, 
, 
Any good tinychats up tonight?

9I guess this'll have to do, Thanks.
get her to 100 views maybe she show boobs on stream if she doesnt then fuck her and just raid
heres the link lol 
1This stream blows. Anything better out there? Tinychat preferable.
, 
my dad found my rule 34 folder on my computer.really fucking embrassed, what should i do?
1die
Fuck his wife
an hero and livestream it
Stop being a pussy about it. It's none of his damn business, like what you want. He's probably a worse freak behind closed doors.
Tell him to mind his own business. Nosey cunt.
send it to his work e-mail
1Give him a copy of it all. You probably inherited the massive faggotry from him.
1tell him to find his own fap material
Tell him it's my computer, my life, and none of your business.
Furiously jack it to some r34 in front of him and look him straight in the eye when you finish.
dump it
0this9thisHe was obviously looking for shit. What is it with perants not understanding privacy.
What kind of shit did you have OP?
1Are you fucking 13? What is your doing checking your computer?Just dont fucking regret it, it's none of his bussiness
8true, but i also have a ton of shit on him.i once found this on his hard drive and when getting free movies from him.like dafuq nigga
8I found shoops of Kylie Minogue on my dads comp when I was like 10. Told mum and I deleted it.
8kek
3You are a piece of shit
1Make a thread on 4chan about it.
7I know
It's 3 am /b/ I have to be up at 7 amI think I have a ton of OC cringe to dump You decide It's 3 am, post your cringe too
Go to bed anon.
4I wasn't looking for a voice of reason. But you are appreciated.
Not just the South, either.
Nigga do you even English?
3Segregation is not. GENTRIFICATION, sparked by Reagan, the worst president we ever had until Shrub came along and introduced the concept of Tarding the place up, anyway.Hopefully as we see the current, neocon era GOP dying off literally, the median age of the these Cold Warrior-era morons is like 68 right now, we can have another settling period for the racial tensions the fuckwits are instigating.
8Why yes my fine, bountiful gentlemen of this intrinsic and illustrious board that you, and your brethren, refer to as "/b/ - Random?"But, may I ask, can you speak English? American English to be specific? The use of an ebonics word at the start of your sentence, as well as a missing gap between "English" and "even," casts a dubitable shadow on thy linguistic skills.
Asian thread.
I know this was one of you. 
Also general toe worship thread
Could anyone help to identify this song?
HELP ME /b/my girlfriend told me having sex doesnt feel like much. but when shes riding me she almost always orgasms. she doesnt make a lot of noise having sex though. the only time ive heard her moan is when shes having an orgasm from riding me.inb4 you have a small dick. my dick is 6 inches and pretty good girth, i really doubt thats the problemanyone have experience with girls that are quiet when having sex?

5life is not like porn, buddy
4do women seriously fake moaning... i know they do in porn but in real life it just seems so stupid to fake
5If she gets wet, it's your dick size. If she doesn't get wet, it's because she's turned off by something that isn't your dick.
sex god methodgoogle it
bump
5nice dubschecked.
arlene.. would you want to fuck her ass
Do you think some people deserve to die?If so, Who?inb4 "yes,OP"
Fat people
suicidal OP is suicidal?Seek Help man.
9Niggers and jews
I think that the people who deserve death are the same that deserve life. Those who do not deserve death air-go do not deserve death.
9Traps, Furrys and weebs.All these retarded fags must die in hell
Valar Morghulis
members of the Mexican cartel, any cartel, mobsters. people who intentionally kill others to create fear and brake down a community. people who dont value life and destroy for there own gain .however would killing them be hypocritical?
9The ashkenazi zionists who run the world.
7agreed.
8brake down
Yes, all politics and "celebrities"
Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.
2your right
politicians, feminists, and people who aren't in stem fields should all die
2I knew I heard that somewhere. My man.
9Those that give life and don't support/care for it should die in its place
every third personIt's nice and fair
9zionists, big heads behind the pharmaceutical industry, whatever group is behind the federal reserve bank, imperialists, nationalists, child molesters, people that believe in political correctness, nazis, sjws, whatever group is holding back honest journalism, people that watch cp or hentai with kid molestation, religious extremists, PETA people that believe a human life is worth less than an animal's life, Vegan/Vegetarians that make others feel that they are evil for their diet habits....god damn this list was longer than I thought.
Those that still engage in magical thinking over the age of 12
People who use the word bae
9The 1%.Their contribution to society would not be missed and It'll free up half of the worlds wealth
8Agh, that 'killing killers is hypocritical'If someone on the street starts hitting me, and I defend myself, my 'violence' is fine. The violonce by the assaillant is not ok.Also, do you think these agressors/killers éver stop to do some deep-thinking whether they think what they're doing is ok? No, they laugh at the fact that there are folks like you spontaneously defending their primate asses.
